
 REALSPORTS FOOTBALL (FOOTBALL)

 BY ATARI

 1. YOUR BALL and GOAL-to-GO
 As always, it's freezing cold and wet in Buffalo. Terrible
 conditions for playing football! The field's a snowy mess. The
 temperature's so low that the receivers have to wear gloves,
 and everybody else in the stadium is wearing ski masks.
 But all that matters very little to you. Right now you're
 sitting warm and cozy in your own home. And as the quarterback
 of the ATARI offensive team, you're facing a fourth down situation
 inside your opponent's 20-yard line during the closing seconds of
 your own football game. The big decision confronting you: What
 play are you going to call up?
 The defense has been rough all day. You wish that you would have
 spent more time practicing those pass patterns and learning the
 exact moments when you have the best chance of completing a pass.
 But it's too late now. These are game conditions, rookie, and
 that other guy is out for blood-yours.
 A field goal could tie things up. But that's pretty chancy at any
 distance. Besides, like Vince Lombardi, you believe there is no
 tomorrow, so you're going for the touchdown to win. Time's
 running out though. Think fast. What will work?
 You call a short pass with two eligible receivers. Defense sets
 up for a long pass. Good. Maybe you'll get a break. Nah, scratch
 that. Defense is changing its play at the line of scrimmage.
 No problem. You quick-snap the ball while your opponents are still
 in motion. Sneaky, but legal. Oh, look! You've fooled the
 linebacker into committing himself to the sideline receiver. Great!
 Now you have to evade those blitzing linemen until the precise
 moment when your other receiver can most likely catch a pass. You
 know it's only gonna be a few microseconds when he'll be in the
 clear, so your timing has to be good. Real good.
 Darn! Where is all that pass protection when you need it the most?
 These characters who are supposed to be blockers act more like
 ghosts. That's OK, though. You can pass from any position behind
 the line of scrimmage and the ball will still go toward your
 intended receiver. Close enough, anyway.
 Ah, there he is. Quick! Fire that ball! Thread the needle! Uh-oh,
 it looks like it's a little behind him. Better shift control to
 the receiver to adjust his position and give him an even better
 chance to gobble up that pigskin.
 Good work! He's got it. Now-quick as a wrist flick-make the
 upfield cut that evades the defensive safety and fly for pay dirt.
 Just get that first step on him, and you're long gone. Yes, yes,
 good move, hero. It's touchdown time....
 Oh, no. Your opponent has switched control to that pesky,
 pursuing safety. Persistent bulldog! You know you can't outrun
 him. Better try to dodge him and angle into the end zone for the
 winning score. Move that joystick controller, speed demon. Cut a
 path only a shadow could follow.
 Ouch! Wrong turn, turkey. You're grounded on his 7-yard line.
 Never mind. You did get a first down. Now you've got a goal-to-go
 situation. Hurry! Call your next play before the clock runs out.
 Get out there and win this one for the Gipper!

 2. GAME PLAY
 The basic rules of football apply with some modifications that
 you should find intriguing.
 Like regular football, the object of ATARI RealSports Football
 in two-player contests is to score more points than your
 opponent. You do this by getting touchdowns, field goals, and
 safeties. In one-player games, you'll want to become proficient
 in the main features of the game, especially in the art of passing
 the ball successfully.
 Each team has six players, one of which is always controlled by the
 joystick. Under certain circumstances, you can transfer joystick
 control to another player. A lot of game strategy involves knowing
 when and how to execute that transfer.
 You can run the ball, but you'll never fumble. You can pass it, but
 you risk having it intercepted. You can kick field goals and punts
 as good as the pros, but you can't kick the ball out-of-bounds
 (like they occasionally do!).
 There are no two-minute warnings and no (legal) time outs. There
 are no penalties either- unless, of course, you elbow your
 competitor and he or she socks you back. (If you want half-time
 entertainment and refreshments, you'll simply have to supply your
 own!)
 Pay attention to the scoreboard, since it will display the
 instructions you'll need to play the game- once you've learned the
 basic rules. The home team (pink, or orange) gets all its signals
 on the left side of the scoreboard; the visiting team (blue, or
 light purple) gets all its cues on the right. (Note: Colors may
 vary on different TV sets.)
 The scoreboard clock runs twice as fast as normal time, so remember
 to synchronize your heartbeat whenever you play ATARI RealSports
 Football.

 3. USING THE 5200 CONTROLLERS
 Use two 5200 controllers with this ATARI game cartridge. Plug the
 controllers into jacks 1 and 2 on your console. In all games, you
 can activate your player selection options, your game selection
 options, and the START, RESET, and PAUSE functions only with the
 controller plugged into jack 1.

 KEYPAD OVERLAYS
 For your convenience, two keypad overlays are included with this
 game. Slip the overlay tabs into the slots provided on the
 controller keypad.

 PLAYER SELECTION
 When you turn the POWER switch ON, a flashing scoreboard will
 appear, instructing you to "SELECT OPTIONS OR START GAME." You
 can play a practice game for one player only, or you can play a
 competitive game between two players. Press the * key (or, the
 square marked 2 PLAYERS/PRACTICE on your overlay) until your
 choice is indicated on the scoreboard.

 GAME SELECTION
 You can choose to play a regulation game of 15 "minutes" per
 quarter, or you can play a short game of "6-minute" quarters.
 Press the # key (or, the square marked REGULATION/SHORT GAME
 on your overlay) to indicate your preference.

      1               2               3
 XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX
 X         X     X         X     X         X
 X         X     X         X     X         X
 XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX

      4               5               6
 XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX
 X         X     X         X     X         X
 X         X     X         X     X         X
 XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX

 XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX
 X         X     X         X     X         X
 X         X     X         X     X         X
 XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX

  2 PLAYERS                       REGULATION
 XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX
 X         X     X         X     X         X
 X         X     X         X     X         X
 XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX     XXXXXXXXXXX
  PRACTICE                       SHORT GAME

          FIGURE 3 - KEYPAD OVERLAY

 START
 As soon as you have displayed your game choices on the
 scoreboard, press START. The players will charge onto the
 field and go into a huddle formation, ready to receive your
 first commands to play ball.

 RESET
 The RESET function has a safety mechanism built into it which
 requires you to press it twice before you can select game
 options and begin a new game. When you press RESET once, the
 scoreboard will present you with a choice: HIT RESET AGAIN TO
 SELECT GAME OR HIT PAUSE TO CONTINUE. By pressing RESET a second
 time, you will return to the pre-game selection mode where you
 can then select new game options or begin a new game by pressing
 START.

 If-in your excitement-you happened to hit RESET by accident and
 don't want to begin a new game, press PAUSE to return to the place
 you left off. Avoid hitting RESET that second time unless you're
 sure you want to send the current game into the annals of football
 history, because you won't be able to recall it after that.

 PAUSE
 Press PAUSE to suspend the game; press it again to return to the
 exact place you left off. PAUSE cannot be used to "freeze" the
 action during any single play.

 CONTROLLER ACTION
 Your joystick controls the movement of the odd-colored player on
 your team. This control-player will be green (or yellow) for the
 home team, and dark blue/purplish (or black) for the visitors team.
 Move the joystick in the direction you want this control-player to
 go. (NOTE: Colors may vary on different TV sets.)
 The red fire buttons-especially the lower ones!-have several
 functions. Use them to pass, to kick, to hike the ball early, to
 free-up the defensive control-player before the snap, and to
 transfer control from one player to another. The fire buttons on
 either side have identical functions and are designed as a
 convenience for right- and left-handed players.
 The numbered buttons (from 1 to 6 only) are used by both offensive
 and defensive teams to select formations and to call up plays.

 4. TRAK-BALL OPTION (FUTURE ACCESSORY)
 This ATARI RealSports FOOTBALL cartridge offers an option to play
 with a TRAK-BALL controller. (Available for purchase in mid-1983.)
 You will need two TRAK-BALL controllers to play ATARI RealSports
 FOOTBALL, or you can employ a joystick and a TRAK-BALL in
 combination. Plug them into jacks 1 and 2 on your console. You can
 switch from one type of controller to another in mid-game without
 altering the current game situation. You can also change the jacks
 you plug each controller into without affecting game play.
 Each type of controller has different characteristics. Some games
 are better played with a joystick; others with a TRAK-BALL.
 Experiment to find which feels more comfortable for you.
 Follow the instructions in Section 3, USING THE 5200 CONTROLLERS,
 regarding player selection,game selection, and use of the START,
 PAUSE, and RESET buttons. The numbered buttons on either side of
 the ball can be used to call up plays during any single scrimmage.
 The inside fire buttons (those nearest the ball) correspond to
 the lower fire buttons on the joystick controller and have
 identical functions. The outer fire buttons (those furthest from
 the ball) function exactly like the upper fire buttons on the
 joystick.

 TRAK-BALL ACTION
 Rotate your TRAK-BALL controller in the direction you want your
 control-player to go. Spinning the ball faster will not affect
 running speed in any way, but if you don't turn the ball, the
 control-player can't run at all.

 5. CALLING PLAYS
 As illustrated in the accompanying PLAYBOOK, there are 18 offensive
 plays and six defensive plays to choose from.
 In the one-player practice version, you play offense only. You do
 not play against the computer for high scores. Instead, you
 alternate playing offense on both the home team and the visitor's
 team to become familiar with the features of the game. You control
 the quarterback with your joystick, while the computer takes care of
 executing the defensive play and directing the movement of the
 defensive control-player. However, you must call up both the
 offensive and defensive plays by using the appropriate controller
 for each side. When the ball changes hands, simply use the other
 controller to call up the plays for the new offensive team.

 In the two-player version, each person calls up his own play and
 directs the movement of the control-player with the joystick.

 OFFENSE
 All 18 offensive plays are executed from three formations. Within
 these formations, you can run, pass, or kick, according to the
 specific play you select.

 Ofensive picks its plays in a two-step process:
 (a) Select a number (from 1 to 3) in response to the "PICK
 FORMATION" cue on the scoreboard.
 (b) Select another number (from 1 to 6) in response to the "PICK
 PLAY" cue.
 When offense lines up for the scrimmage, the control-player will
 be the quarterback. Except when you decide to punt or kick a field
 goal, one or two pass-eligible receivers will be designated,
 according to the specific play you select. The other players will
 be linemen functioning as blockers.

 RUNNING
 Except for the field goal play, all the offensive plays (including
 the punt) offer running possibilities. The ball carrier is faster
 and more maneuverable than the defensive linemen who pursue him.
 But he is slightly slower than the defensive control-player, who
 can eventually overtake him unless he shows some fancy footwork.

 In one-player games, the computer automatically transfers this
 speed advantage to the defensive player closest to the ball carrier
 once the running back has crossed the line of scrimmage. (You'll
 notice this when you see the color change occur.) In two-player
 games, the defensive side can transfer control and assign this
 speed advantage to the defender nearest the ball carrier by
 pressing the lower fire button. This transfer of joystick control
 can only be made once during any single play.

 PASSING

 Except for the field goal and the punt plays, all the offensive
 plays offer passing possibilities. The differences between the
 plays occur primarily in the number of pass-eligible receivers in
 each play and in the variety of pass patterns these receivers run.

 After the snap, use your joystick to direct the movement of the
 quarterback away from the charging linemen long enough to get the
 pass off. Look for your receivers as they run through their
 patterns, and pass the ball by pressing one of the red fire buttons.

 In pass plays, the lower fire button on either side will release
 the ball to the receiver designated as I in the PLAYBOOK diagrams;
 the upper fire button will pass the ball to the receiver designated
 as II.

 Look over the plays and you'll notice that the receivers run
 patterns that are consistent in their positioning to each other.
 For example, during any particular quarter of play, if the I
 receivers run patterns in the top part of your screen, the II
 receivers will run patterns that lead them into the lower part of
 the screen.

 The art of successful passing is a matter of proper timing. Poor
 timing will result in incompleted passes, or worse-interceptions.
 If you complete a pass, the receiver will immediately become the
 control-player whose movements you can then direct with your
 joystick. As the ball carrier, the receiver can now run the ball
 until he scores a touchdown, runs out-of-bounds,or is tackled by
 one of the pursuing defenders.

 PUNTING

 You can call up a punt by pressing button 2 in response to the
 "PICK FORMATION" cue and then pick button 1 in response to the
 "PICK PLAY" cue on the scoreboard.

 After the hike, press the lower fire button and the ball will be
 kicked a random distance, then scooped up and returned by a
 defensive player.

 Be careful when you punt, though. If the linemen get too close to
 the kicker, they can block the kick. The ball will the be blown
 dead and returned to the line of scrimmage for the next series of
 plays.

 KICKING FIELD GOALS

 You can kick a field goal by pressing button 3 in response to the
 "PICK FORMATION" cue and then button 1 in response to the "PICK
 PLAY" cue.

 After the hike, the ball will automatically be kicked a finite
 distance with a limited degree of accuracy toward the goal posts-
 depending on your proximity to the goal line. Your chances of
 kicking a successful field goal are as good as the pros, since
 the completion percentages displayed in the PLAYBOOK are drawn
 upon a full NFL season's statistics. Consult that chart when you
 need to make an intelligent decision about whether to take a
 chance on kicking a field goal.

 If the defense can organize its blitz well enough, the field goal
 kick can occasionally be blocked. On a missed field goal, the ball
 will come out to the line of scrimmage, or to the 20-yard line if
 the scrimmage was inside the twenty.

 If you want to fake a field goal and then go for it, press 3 and
 then 2. You'll get a running/passing situation with two eligible
 receivers.

 DEFENSE

 The defensive team has six basic strategies, each with slightly
 different characteristics that can be mastered only with
 experience.

 Defense selects its play by pressing a number from 1 to 6 in
 response to the "PICK PLAY" cue on the scoreboard:
 1 - For a tight line defense against the up-the-middle run and
     medium-range pass plays
 2 - For a wide line defense that provides a good rush and coverage
     against the medium-range pass
 3 - For a wide line defense against a long pass
 4 - For a 5-man line that provides the best blitzing capabilities
     and the best field goal defense
 5 - For short pass defense and goal line defense
 6 - For punt defense

 When the defensive team lines up, the linemen will be assigned to
 charge the ball carrier wherever he goes; the safeties will track
 the pass-eligible receivers during their pattern; the control-player
 will be initially designated as the middle linebacker.

 However, by pressing the lower fire button before the ball is
 snapped. you can free-up the control-player from his computer-
 assigned position as a middle linebacker, and reposition himself
 anywhere else on the field. If he touches the line of scrimmage,
 though, he will be frozen until the ball is hiked.

 CHANGING PLAYS
 After each side has selected its play, the teams will assemble
 at the line of scrimmage. The scoreboard will then offer an
 opportunity for each side to "CHANGE PLAY?". You have to be quick,
 though, because the ball will be automatically hiked within about
 8 "ATARI football-seconds" after the line-up.

 Offense can change its play, but not its formation at this juncture.
 For example, offense can change from play 1-2 to 1-4 (or any other
 play in the series 1 formation), but it can't go from 1-2 to any
 play beginning with formation 2 or 3.

 Defense can change its formation, but while it does, offense can
 immediately hike the ball by pressing the lower fire button. If
 that button is not pushed, the ball will be automatically snapped.

 6. SCORING
 Touchdowns count for seven (7) points. After a score, the ball
 will automatically be brought out to the twenty-yard line to begin
 the next series of plays.

 Field goals count for three (3) points, with the ball brought out
 to the twenty.

 Safeties score two (2) points for the defensive team, with the ball
 brought out to the fifty-yard line in their possession.

 7. STRATEGY

 SCOREBOARD CLOCK
 As in professional football rules, the scoreboard clock operates
 continuously following run plays and completed passes; it stops
 after incompleted passes, interceptions, kicks, scores, running
 out-of-bounds, turnovers, and dead balls.

 However, in order to compensate for "running-out-the-clock" tactics
 by dastardly villains and other unscrupulous players, the clock
 will stop at the end of one play and begin again as soon as the
 defense calls its next play. The clock will run down for no more
 than thirty seconds. If the offense hasn't made up its mind within
 that span of time, the clock will freeze 30 seconds after the
 defense called its play. The clock will resume at the snap.

 To gain some control over the clock, master the sideline passes
 that can be effective as short-gainers and clock-stoppers, too.

 PLAYER RUNNING SPEEDS
 The players run across the gridiron at different speeds relative
 to each other. The order of their speed from fastest to slowest is:
 *Receiver in a pass pattern (the fastest player only while still
  in his pattern)
 *Defensive control-player
 *Offensive control-player
 *Defensive safeties who cover the receivers
 *All other linemen, and receivers after completing their pass
  patterns

 RUNNING PLAYS AND BLOCKING STRATEGIES
 Running plays are an integral part of the game and should not be
 overlooked. In the plays specifically designated as "run" plays
 in the PLAYBOOK-namely, 1-2, 1-5, and 1-6-the blockers have
 superior strength for a random amount of time and can actually
 open up a hole for a fleet-footed running back. As in real life,
 these blockers also get fatigued, so you can't expect that hole
 to be there all the time. Sorry, no guarantees!

 You can also make effective use of your blockers downfield by
 weaving your ball carrier behind and around them to gain extra
 yardage. Since the linemen are programmed to follow the ball and
 are slower than the ball carrier, you can't hide behind any
 "flying wedges" or other blocking formations like that, though.

 Thanks to the miracles of electronic circuitry, you'll soon observe
 that in running downfield, the straightest line is not necessarily
 the quickest way to zip across the field toward your goal. Try
 running on a slight diagonal to the yard lines. Develop the
 technique of cutting back on your own beeline path by making
 U-turns and curlicues to evade your pursuers. You'll be amazed at
 the extra life this will put in your game!

 THE ART OF PASSING
 In a pass play, the ball is thrown to certain "cut-points." The
 art of completing a pass involves timing the release of the ball
 to coincide with the arrival of the intended receiver at one of
 those cut-points.

 You can throw the ball to match the receiver's arrival at his
 first cut-point; or you can toss it after he makes that cut and
 runs to his second cut-point; or you can even try to connect with
 him after he completes his pattern and begins to run back toward
 the ball carrier.

 Keep in mind, though, that it becomes increasingly difficult to
 complete a pass if you throw the ball after the receiver has run
 through the prearranged pattern. If you throw the ball after the
 intended receiver has run beyond his last cut-point (and therefore
 completed his pass pattern), the ball will travel to where the
 receiver was at the moment you pressed the fire button.

 Meanwhile, the defensive safety-obligated to track the receiver
 only while he was in his pattern-is now free to rush for the ball
 that is heading in their direction. And since he is now faster
 than the receiver, chances are, the defensive safety will intercept.
 This means that, there is a limited amount of time in which you
 could throw a successful "buttonhook" pass; but the chances of
 getting the ball intercepted increase as soon as the defensive
 safety's running speed exceeds the receiver's.

 Ultimately, it's all a matter of practice and timing. Learn the
 pass patterns in the one-player version and you'll be a tough
 competitor when the opening whistle blows.

 You can complete some pass plays, like the long "bombs," by
 throwing the ball at an angle to the receiver. If your quarterback
 lines up directly behind your intended receiver, the chances are
 greater that the safety can come in between the passer and the
 receiver and thus intercept the pass.

 Interceptions occur when a defender is both in the direct line of
 fire of a thrown pass and within two yards of the intended receiver.
 If a thrown pass appears to have gone "through" a defender, it means
 he was not close enough to the intended receiver to intercept the
 ball, and that it went "over his head."

 In the screen plays-numbered 1-4, 2-4, and 3-4-the offensive
 blockers bait the attacking linemen by offering no resistance at
 the line of scrimmage. Within a short time, a receiver emerges
 from that pack, ready to catch a pass, and-unless the defense has
 "read the screen correctly"-completely in the clear.

 TRANSFERRING JOYSTICK CONTROL
 Transferring Joystick control after the ball is hiked is one of the
 key features of ATARI RealSports FOOTBALL. If you intend to win, you
 should become very familiar with this feature. You can transfer
 joystick control by pressing the lower fire button under the following
 circumstances:

 OFFENSE
 While the ball is in mid-flight to an intended receiver, you can
 transfer control to that receiver to adjust his position and thereby
 improve your chances of completing that pass. If the intended receiver
 is I and you already pressed the lower fire button once to pass the
 ball, you have to press it a second time to transfer control while the
 ball is in mid air.

 DEFENSE
 Defense can transfer joystick control to the player closest to the
 ball at the following times:
 *After the ball carrier has crossed the line of scrimmage
 *As soon as a pass is completed
 *As soon as a pass is intercepted
 *As soon as a punt is scooped up and is being returned

 Whether you are on offense or defense, remember: You can only make
 this transfer of joystick control once during any single play, so
 pick your moment well.

 8. FOOTBALL GLOSSARY
 Blitz. A defensive strategy in which the linebacker joins the
 linemen in rushing the quarterback behind the line of scrimmage.
 Down. The basic unit of game play; one scrimmage play. (The
 offensive team has four plays, or downs, in which to gain 10 yards
 and keep possession of the ball.)
 Downfield. The playing area beyond the line of scrimmage.
 End Zone. The 10-yard area beyond the goal line where a receiver
 can catch a pass and score a touchdown.
 Field Goal. Kicking the ball through the goal posts; worth 3 points.
 Interception. A pass that the defense catches and is allowed to
 run with.
 Linebacker. The defensive leader, positioned just behind the front
 line.
 Linemen. The players at the line of scrimmage at the beginning of
 each play.
 Pass. Throwing the football.
 Pattern. A prearranged route run by a pass receiver.
 Punt. Giving up the ball by kicking it downfield to the other team;
 a strategic move on a fourth down situation when getting a first
 down appears risky or hopeless.
 Quarterback. The offensive leader who receives the snap from the
 center. He can run or pass with the ball.
 Receiver. An offensive player who is eligible to catch a pass.
 Runner. The player who is in possession of the ball; the ball
 carrier.
 Safety. Tackling a ball carrier in his own end zone; worth 2 points
 for the defensive team; also a defensive back covering a receiver.
 Scrimmage. The action that occurs when a play starts with the center
 hiking the ball and ends with a dead ball; amounts to one down. The
 line of scrimmage is the starting point for each play.
 Snap. Hiking the ball to begin the scrimmage.
 Tackle. The act of stopping the ball carrier.
 Touchdown. Crossing the defensive team's goal line by running the
 ball into the end zone or completing a pass; worth 7 points in
 ATARI RealSports FOOTBALL, since the extra point is automatically
 added.

 9. SCORECARD

   TEAMS           SCORE           DATE

 Home Team        _______         ______
 Visitors         _______         ______

 Home Team        _______         ______
 Visitors         _______         ______

 Home Team        _______         ______
 Visitors         _______         ______

 Home Team        _______         ______
 Visitors         _______         ______

 etc.

 END

 Typed by Robert "Ferg" Ferguson (wombat2@ix.netcom.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
