
 ASTRO CHASE

 BY PARKER BROTHERS

 OBJECT
 ------

 Your mission is to save the planet earth from total destruction!  To
 do it, you must eliminate all 8 mega mines now approaching earth --
 just one will shatter the earth like glass!  And while you're
 blasting mega mines, you must also destroy a barrage of enemy ships
 as they chase you to the ends of the galaxy!  The larger your
 conquests -- the bigger your reception upon returning home!  Good
 luck with your mission!

 SETTING THE CONSOLE CONTROLS
 ----------------------------

 1.  Place the cartridge firmly into the cartridge slot at the top of
     the Atari 5200 unit.

 2.  Press the ON/OFF switch to ON.

 3.  Once the initial animation scene has ended, press down the #
     button located on the joystick controller to choose the Chase or
     skill level desired.  The numbers will appear at the bottom,
     left-hand side of the screen.  You must press the # button each
     time in order to advance to the next Chase.  NOTE:  You cannot
     select Chase 25 through 34.  You must survive Chase 24 to be
     awarded the opportunity to play Chase 25 or higher.  If you lose
     at any Chase past 24, the game will automatically return to
     Chase 23.

 4.  To begin playing, press down the START button on the joystick
     controller.

 THE JOYSTICK CONTROLLER
 -----------------------

 Plug the joystick controller firmly into the Atari 5200 unit at the
 jack labeled "No. 1."

 Use your joystick to navigate your ship in any direction -- left,
 right, up, down, or diagonally.  Press the lower FIRE buttons on
 either side of the joystick controller to shoot lasers at attacking
 enemy ships or mega mines.  Holding down the FIRE buttons lets you
 fire in rapid succession.

 PLAYING
 -------

 The following illustrates the situations which may appear on the
 screen during the game.

 (illustration omitted for obvious reasons)

 Each time you begin the game for the first time, or begin a new
 Chase after the earth has been destroyed, you receive 3 saucers,
 each having 1,000 units of energy.

 FORCE FIELD
 -----------

 The galaxy is surrounded by an invisible (and inescapable!) force
 field.  Its perimeters are defined by the 4 Energy Generators located
 in the four furthermost corners of space, and by the 8 Shield Depots
 located across the top, sides, and bottom of the field.  If you hit
 the Force Field, the galaxy sparks - you lose energy -- but bounce
 back.  You can, however, shoot through the Force Field and destroy
 enemy ships or Mega Mines.

 SHIELD DEPOTS
 -------------

 To activate your shields and become invulnerable to all enemy blasts
 and ramming, simply fly through one of the 8 Shield Depots.  You will
 hear a short musical cue and your saucer will begin to flash.  Now,
 if you ram an enemy ship, or if one rams you, it will automatically
 be destroyed.  The shield lasts for approximately 10 seconds and you
 will use 100 units of energy upon activating it.

 ENERGY GENERATORS
 -----------------

 There is an endless supply of energy available from the 4 Energy
 Generators located just within the four corners of the Force Field.
 To reenergize, simply fly through one of the generators.  Each
 horizontal pass through it gives you 12 additional units of energy.
 Each vertical pass through a generator gives you 24 additional units
 of energy.  NOTE:  For each second of saucer flight time, and for
 each single blast of your laser, you use 1 unit of energy.  You also
 lose energy when your saucer bumps into hot stars and planets.  When
 your energy level drops to 300 units, a warning will flash on the
 screen.  Use all your energy and your saucer blows up!  NOTE:  When
 you have run out of energy, the energy displays on the screen will
 show an abnormal reading, such as 999999.

 LASERS
 ------

 To fire lasers, simply hold down the FIRE button on the joystick and
 simultaneously move the joystick in the direction you want the laser
 to shoot.

 SINGLE THRUST PROPULSION
 ------------------------

 This special game feature lets you lock your saucer on course, at a
 constant speed, and simultaneously continue to shoot in any
 direction -- regardless of the direction of travel.  To fly, simply
 tap the joystick in the direction you wish to head.  Then, by holding
 down the FIRE button, you will continue flying in that direction,
 but will be able to direct your missiles by moving the joystick.

 SCORING
 -------

 Destroying Enemy Ships:

 Ramatrons ... 10 points
 Characteristics: They ram only, and cannot go through planets.  They
 are slower than jets.

 Ramalons ... 20 points
 Characteristics: They ram and fire lasers, but cannot go through
 planets.

 Firetrons ... 50 points
 Characteristics: They ram and fire lasers, but cannot go through
 planets.

 Firelons ... 60 points
 Characteristics: They ram and fire lasers, and can go through
 planets.

 Ramatron Jets ... 30 points
 Characteristics: They ram only, but cannot go through planets.  ALL
 JETS HAVE DOUBLE SPEED.

 Ramalon Jets ... 40 points
 Characteristics: They ram only, and can go through planets.

 Firetron Jets ... 70 points
 Characteristics: They ram and fire lasers, but cannot go through
 planets.

 Firelon Jets ... 80 points
 Characteristics: They ram and fire lasers, and can go through
 planets.

 Destroying Mega Mines:
    Each Mega mine is worth 3 times the point value of the type of
    enemy ship appearing in that "chase."

    EX.:  In Chase 1, Ramatrons worth 10 points each are the attacking
          fighters.  Therefore, each Mega mine destroyed is worth 30
          points (3 X 10 points).

 Bonus Saucers:
    Whenever you successfully complete a Chase, you will be awarded 2
    bonus saucers, each with 1,000 units of energy.

 Remaining Energy:
    When you survive a Chase, the energy remaining in your saucer is
    converted into points and added to your score.

 SPECIAL JOYSTICK CONTROLS
 -------------------------

 "Pause" Button
    While your saucer is moving, depress the "Pause" button on the
    joystick controller and the action will pause.  To begin the
    action, simply press the "Pause" button again.

 * Button
    At any time during the game, while the saucer is moving, you may
    abort your mission by pressing down the * button on the joystick
    controller.  You may then press down the "Start" button to begin
    the preceding Chase again, or depress the # button to choose
    another chase, and then press the "Start" button to begin playing.
    NOTE:  Whenever you abort your mission, you will lose all your
    bonus saucers and points accumulated to this point.

 "0" Button
    At any time during the game, if you wish to eliminate the music,
    and hear only the battle sounds, press down the "0" button on the
    joystick.  To restore the music, simply press the "0" button
    again.

 Reset Button
    The Reset button will restart the game beginning with the
    animation sequence.  The high score will be lost.

 END OF GAME
 -----------

 The game ends when you lose all of your saucers, or a mega mine
 reaches the earth and blows it apart!  Press the START button to
 begin again.

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
