
 BLUEPRINT

 BY CBS ELECTRONICS

 SETTING UP YOUR VIDEO CONSOLE
 1. Hook up your video game system, following manufacturer's
 instructions.
 2. With the power OFF, plug in the video game cartridge.
 3. Turn power ON. If no image appears, check the connection
 of your game system to the TV, then repeat steps 1-3.
 4. Plug two 5200 controllers firmly into controller jacks 1
 and 2. Use the controller in jack 1 for one-player games.
 5. Keypad overlays are provided for your convenience. If you
 desire, slip the overlays onto the keypads of the controllers.
 6. Press the keypad square marked 1-2 Players (the # key) to
 select either the one-player or two-player version.
 7. Players start at Level 1. To begin at a higher level, press
 the keypad square marked Level (the * key) until the desired
 level number appears.
 8. To start the game, press the START key or one of the two
 bottom buttons on the sides of the controller. To restart the
 game when the game ends, press the START key again. To pause
 the game, press the PAUSE key. To resume the game, press the
 PAUSE key again. Pressing the RESET key returns the game to the
 title screen at Level 1.

 CHIVALRY IS NOT DEAD!
 That nasty old troll, Ollie Ogre, is at it again. He's chasing
 poor Daisy Damsel all across the neighborhood! So what are you
 waiting for, hero? Get out there and stop him! You have the
 blueprint (plans) for the only contraption that can knock him
 off. All you need now are the parts with which to build it and
 they're hidden in the houses of the neighborhood. What you don't
 need are the bombs you may pick up and encounters with fiendish
 Fuzzy Wuzzy! But if you complete your contraption in time you'll
 be able to stop Ollie and save Daisy!
 So get a move on already! Daisy's counting on you!

 OBJECT OF THE GAME
 The object of BLUEPRINT is to accumulate points by finding the
 parts of your contraption hidden within each neighborhood and
 successfully placing them in their proper positions on the
 blueprint for the contraption. Once the contraption is built,
 you can score bonus points by using it to stop the pursuit of
 Daisy Damsel by Ollie Ogre.

 OUR HERO
 In BLUEPRINT, you play the part of our gallant hero. You begin
 each game with five lives. The number of hero silhouettes at the
 top of the screen indicate how many lives you have left in
 reserve.
 Use the joystick to enter each neighborhood and to move from
 house to house. As you search for parts to fit the blueprint, the
 bottom buttons on the sides of your controller act as your speed
 control. Once your completed contraption is activated, however,
 these buttons become your triggering device, enabling you to
 fire off a shot at mean old Ollie Ogre. The top buttons have no
 function in this game.
 You will be awarded one extra life if you score 20,000 points.

 DAISY'S DILEMMA
 Your sweetheart, the fair Daisy Damsel, is being chased throughout
 the game by that dastardly villain, ugly Ollie Ogre! If at any
 time during the game Ollie catches up with Daisy, a distress
 signal will sound. This is your cue telling you that you only have
 a few seconds left to stop Ollie before he finally grabs Daisy!

 NEIGHBORHOODS & HOUSES
 Each neighborhood is made up of 10 houses, eight of which contain
 the parts to your blueprint. The other two houses contain deadly
 bombs. To progress to the next neighborhood and the next level
 of play, you must find the missing parts, position them on the
 blueprint in their proper positions and then use your completed
 contraption to stop Ollie and save Daisy.
 On Level 1, the neighborhood has three entranceways. On Level 2,
 it has two. All others only have one entranceway. Furthermore,
 neighborhoods increase in difficulty in the amount of time you have
 to save Daisy and in the frequency and speed of the other dangers
 lurking within.

 COMPLETING YOUR CONTRAPTION
 When you enter a house that contains a part of your contraption, a
 short victory signal will sound and you'll score 1,000 points. Then,
 use the joystick to maneuver the part out of the neighborhood and
 onto the blueprint. Remember that the part must be placed in its
 proper position.

 BOMBS
 Should you enter a house that does not contain a part or if you
 return to a house from which you've already taken one, you will
 automatically pick up a bomb. A warning signal will sound indicating
 that you have a limited amount of time to defuse the bomb before it
 blows. To defuse a bomb, use the joystick to maneuver it to the Bomb
 Pit. You must drop the bomb directly into the Pit! Once the bomb
 has been defused, yoy may resume your search for the missing parts
 as time permits. For every bomb successfully defused, you'll score
 50 points.
 Note: If you are in possession of a contraption part and you enter
 another house as you pass through the neighborhood, you will not
 pick up a bomb.

 SNEAKY PETE
 Sneaky Pete is the neighborhood nerd who lives deep within the
 Bomb Pit. Every now and then, he'll pop up on the surface to make
 your life more miserable. If he gets a chance to press the "START"
 button on the screen before you've completed your contraption,
 he'll cause all the parts already in place to slip off the blueprint!
 You can stop him by simply grabbing him and dropping him back into
 the Bomb Pit. If he should wreck havoc upon your contraption,
 you'll have to drop him into the Bomb Pit first, before you go about
 putting the fallen parts back into place on the blueprint.
 Dropping a bomb on Pete just before he jumps out of the Pit will
 keep him in his place.

 FUZZY WUZZY
 Starting on Level 3, Fuzzy Wuzzy, an explosive little fellow who
 was once in love with Daisy, makes his appearance. Daisy never
 returned his affections, of course, and, as result, Fuzzy now
 wanders around the neighborhood getting in your way and making
 your quest more difficult. If he should get hold of you, regardless
 of whether you have a part, a bomb or are empty-handed, you'll
 forfeit the life in play.

 FLOWER POTS
 As Ollie continues to chase Daisy across the top of the screen,
 he'll occasionally knock a Flower Pot off of the ledge. One blow
 from these Flower Pots will prove fatal. Be especially careful of
 them next to the blueprint. When they hit bottom, they grow feet
 and bounce right toward you!

 SAVING DAISY
 The moment you complete your contraption, a signal will sound
 alerting you to the fact that it's time to save Daisy! Use the
 joystick to maneuver yourself right on top of the "START" button
 at the lower left corner of the screen. This will activate your
 contraption.
 Now use the joystick to move your contraption back and forth
 along the bottom of the screen. To fire a basketball at Ollie,
 press one of the two bottom buttons on the sides of your
 controller. Some basketballs might sputter out before you actually
 manage to get one high enough to hit Ollie. Only one shot may be
 fired at a time.
 Have no fear; you cannot ever hit Daisy by accident. That would
 be most unheroic.
 If you hit Ollie, he'll be knocked out cold and you will have
 saved your sweetheart! Bonus points will be scored and you'll
 proceed to the next neighborhood with Ollie commencing his pursuit
 of Daisy all over again.
 If you miss Ollie, you'll have as many chances to hit him as time
 permits.

 LOSING A LIFE
 When a life is lost, you will witness its ascent to its heavenly
 reward. A life may be lost in any one of the following ways:
 *In a bomb explosion.
 *In an encounter with Fuzzy Wuzzy or a Flower Pot.
 *When Ollie Ogre finally gets hold of Daisy Damsel.
 Your next life will begin on the neighborhood already in progress.
 All parts that had been successfully placed on the blueprint will
 remain intact. Any part that may have been in transit when the
 previous life was lost will be just where you left it. Sneaky Pete,
 if he was about, will be back in his Pit. And, most importantly,
 Ollie will begin chasing Daisy all over again.
 Note: If you complete your contraption but fail to stop Ollie in
 time, thereby losing a life, your new life will start on the level
 in progress, but your contraption parts will have slipped off the
 blueprint. You will have to put them back in their proper positions
 and then press the "START" button again in order to reactivate
 your contraption.

 SPEED CONTROL
 As you go from house to house searching for the missing parts, you
 may use the bottom buttons on the sides of your controller to
 increase your speed of movement. Hold one of the buttons in to
 speed up; release to return to normal speed. This feature stays in
 effect for each neighborhood untill you activate your completed
 contraption.
 You have only a limited amount of this "Fast Run Time" to use per
 life, per neighborhood. As you deplete your supply, the meter in
 the lower left corner of your screen will gradually move from right
 to left. Every time you locate a part to your contraption, your
 speed supply will be slightly recharged.

 END OF GAME
 The game ends when you valiantly lose your last life in the noble
 effort to save your sweetheart, Daisy Damsel, from the clutches
 of Ollie Ogre.

 SCORING
 Score is displayed at the top of the screen throughout the game.

 Point Values:
 Finding a Part to the Blueprint      1,000 points
 Defusing a Bomb                      50 points
 Knocking Off Ollie                   500 to 2,500 points
                                      depending on distance
                                      from Daisy

 TWO-PLAYER VERSION
 Two players may compete in BLUEPRINT, alternating turns. Player
 One uses the controller in jack 1 and his/her score appears on
 the left side of the screen. Player Two uses the controller in
 jack 2 and his/her score appears on the right side of the screen

 STRATEGY HINTS

 1. Save your speed supply for times when you'll really need it
 like maneuvering through the houses on the upper blocks of the
 neighborhood or when you unexpectedly pick up a bomb.
 2. Once you pick up a part, you'll be able to avoid Fuzzy
 Wuzzy by ducking into any nearby house. As long as you have
 the part you won't be able to pick up anything else.
 3. BLUEPRINT is, most of all, a memory game. Younger players (as
 well as absent-minded ones) might find it easier to play as a
 team. One member moves through the houses while the other member
 keeps track of where they've already been.

 END

 Typed by Robert "Ferg" Ferguson (wombat2@ix.netcom.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
