
 BOUNTY BOB STRIKES BACK

 BY BIG FIVE SOFTWARE

 LOADING
 Always turn power off before inserting or removing any cartridges.
 Firmly insert the cartridge with the label facing the front of the
 unit.  Use the left slot for Atari 800 computers.  Insert the
 cartridge label side up for the Atari 1200 computer.  Insert a
 standard joystick into port number one.  A second joystick may be
 used in port two for a second player.  If the game logo screen does
 not appear after turning on the power then refer to your owner's
 manual for the computer to make sure that everything is connected
 properly.

 SLIDES, LADDERS, AND FRAMEWORK
 Bob's main goal in the mine is to "claim" every section of the
 framework in each mine cavern.  He does this by simply walking over
 each framework piece.  As he walks over a piece, it will turn
 solid.  To get around the mine there are many slides and ladders
 placed throughout.  When all framework sections have been claimed,
 Bob advances to the next cavern.  Make sure that he claims all the
 sections as the pieces where a slide begins are sometimes overlooked.

 CONTROLLING BOUNTY BOB
 The joystick controls the direction of movement for Bounty Bob.  The
 trigger button controls his jumping.  After pressing the trigger
 button to begin a jump the joystick may be pushed either left or
 right for the desired jump direction.  Extremely long or short jumps
 may be made by varying the delay between pressing the trigger button
 and moving the joystick.  To climb ladders simply stop directly in
 front of the ladder and push up or down to climb or descend the
 ladder.  You may only exit a ladder from either the very top or very
 bottom.  The only action required to use a slide is to walk over the
 framework where the slide begins.  Gravity will do the rest!

 If Bounty Bob walks off the edge of a piece of framework he will
 fall until he hits something.  He can only survive short falls,
 however.  Longer falls will cause death.

 SPECIAL KEYS

 Begin Game                               START
 High Score/Main Title                    RESET
 Options Screen                           "*" (from High Score or Main
                                               Title)
 Freeze/Unfreeze play (Must be enabled)   PAUSE

 WARNING!
 Once pause is activated it will remain until it is deactivated.
 Burns on your television may result if pause is left on for an
 extended period of time.  If pause is intended to be left on for a
 while, shut off your television until the game is ready to be
 resumed.

 GRAIN ELEVATOR
 It'll take you up but getting down will be up to you!  Jumping onto
 the middle, and off from the edge will insure a safe trip.

 SUPER ENERGY FOOD BARS
 These little delicious goodies will pep you up for those extra long
 leaps and bounds.  Better move fast after chomping one 'cause the
 effects wear off quickly!

 THE GRAVITY LIFT
 What goes down must come up--after Bounty Bob gets off, of course!
 This piece of equipment goes down faster than it goes back up, so
 know where you want to get off before you get on!

 HYDRAULIC LIFTS
 Just hop on and you are instantly promoted to "Lift Commander."
 Pushing up or down on the joystick gives you manual control of the
 life while you're on it.  But once you get off, the lift's automatic
 circuits take over and return it to ground level leaving you to
 figure out how to get back on.

 SUCTION TUBES
 Since these tubes were originally designed to carry mail and memos
 it's hard to imagine that good 'ol Bounty bob has found a way to use
 them as shortcuts through the mine.  The air in some of the tubes
 travels in only one direction.  Other tubes have diverter valuves to
 channel the air either left, right, or off.  To operate the valuves
 simply jump up in front of the control box whose number corresponds
 to the tube you wish to adjust.  An indicator needle on each tube
 shows the direction of air flow.  Some tubes are powerful enough to
 suck you up from where you stand; other tubes you'll have to jump
 directly in.

 MOBILE SUCTION UNIT
 This nifty contraption was the brain-child of Nuclear Ned.  He has
 planned to get rich selling this as the vaccum cleaner of the 80's.
 It's the only device of its kind that can be programmedto "search
 and suck!"  It sucked up the dirt well enough; unfortunately it also
 sucked up the furniture!  Bounty Bob has reprogrammed it so that
 anytime he collects one of the mini-suction tubes it will search him
 out and sucks him up!

 THE ACID RAIN
 You must beware of this radioactive liquid that drips from the
 stalactities at the top of the mine (or are they stalagmites?)  It
 seems that one of Yukon Yohan's companies began dumping radioactive
 waste in a field without knowing that Nuclear Ned's mine was below.
 They probably would have dumped it there even if they did know what
 was below!  All this is unimportant to poor Bounty Bob who must
 avoid these droppings if he wishes to stay alive.

 THE CANNON
 This old war relic was given to Nuclear Ned by his great, great,
 great, great grandpappy "Sulfur Sylvester."  Sylvester, known to his
 friends as "Sly," actually used this cannon in the war for
 independence.  After one heavy battle there were many casualties.
 Sly and his cannon, nicknamed "Olf Faithful," were called upon to
 give a twenty-one gun salute for the men who had died.
 Unfortunately the cannon malfunctioned and all they got was a
 thirteen gun salute!

 The moral of this story is never overload the cannon!  It can handle
 a maximum of thirty tons ot TNT.  After loading the TNT use the
 suction tube to enter the cannon.  Use the joystick to move the
 cannon left and right.  Press the fire button to ignite the TNT.

 TRANSPORTERS
 Another one of Nuclear Ned's creations, these devices have the
 capability to move Bob's molecules from one location to another.
 These are only low power transporters and they have no ability to
 beam Bounty Bob up to any passing Starships. (Good thing too:
 imagine what would happen if Yukon Yohan overtook a starship!)
 After entering the chamber, an indicator will flash on another
 transporter.  When the indicator on the transporter you wish to go
 to is flashing, push up or down on the joystick to energize!

 UTILITY HOIST
 The utility hoist is one of the few pieces of special equipment that
 Nuclear Ned did not make.  He bought this from a traveling hoist
 salesman as a birthday present for his young son, Knucklehead Ned.
 Unfortunately, Knucklehead is no longer with us, at least in that
 form.  You see, he fell off the hoist one day and landed in a
 bunny's carrot stockpile.  He instinctively gnawed on some of the
 contaminated carrots and poof!  He's now "Chuck" the mutant!  Make
 sure that you don't repeat Knucklehead's--er, Chuck's mistake.  Hop
 on to the hoistcarefully and it will automatically engage.  Move the
 joystick to maneuver the hoist around.  Press the trigger button to
 turn off the hoist.  To restart the hoist, press the spacebar on
 home computers or the "*" key on the 5200.

 PULVERIZERS
 Ned salvaged some parts from a demolished aluminum recycling center
 to make these contraptions.  He used them to squash the giant
 mutated cockroaches that were somehow immune to bug spray.  He got
 all of those big bugs but overheated the pulverizer control panel in
 the process.  Now the pulverizers run rampant and present a constant
 threat to Bounty Bob.  Move quickly through them or Bob will be
 squashed flatter than a mutated cockroach!

 MOVING PIECES
 There are many different varieties of moving pieces in Ned's mine.
 Ned ordered all of them through the Speedy Elevator and Escalator
 mail-order catalog.  Ned was fascinated by the wide assortment so he
 ordered one of each.  Some constantly move back and forth at varying
 rates of speed.  Others stay parked at stopping areas until Bounty
 Bob jumps on them.  All of them are very useful and are essential
 for getting around the mine.  No special operations are required to
 use them other than simply jumping on and jumping off.

 MUTANT ORGANISMS
 Back in the early days of the mine a variety of small, furry
 creatures such as rabbits, gophers and weasels burrowed throughout
 storing food for the cold months.  When the waste from Yukon Yohan's
 dumping began to seep into the mine, all the store food became
 contaminated.  As the unsuspecting little furry creatures began to
 eat their winter food supplies they slowly started to mutate into
 hideous forms that no pet store would ever display.  Since these
 mutants are extremely radioactive any contact with them is fatal for
 Bounty Bob.

 TREATS
 Scattered throughout the mine are many of Nuclear Ned's wordly
 possessions that he had acquired over the years.  All of them
 absorbed a minute level of radioactivity.  As Bounty Bob collects
 these items the low-level radioactivity enters his body.  This makes
 him immune to the harmful effects of the mutants for a short span of
 time.  Additionally during this period the mutants sense this and
 turn into a pleasant form in the hope that Bounty Bob will ignore
 them.

 HIGH SCORE FACTORY
 In this screen you actually use machinery to "build" your name to be
 displayed on the high score screen.  Upon entering this screen you
 will see two bulldozers on lifts, a mini MSU (Mobile Suction Unit),
 and a small portable nuclear power generator.  Pressing the joystick
 left or right changes control from one bulldozer to another or to
 the auxiliary command center.  Pressing up or down changes the level
 you are on.  Press the trigger button to activate the function you
 have selected.

 DIFFICULTY
 This parameter is adjusted in the OPTIONS screen.  In the "EASY"
 mode, filled-in framework remains filled-in and dead mutants remain
 dead from one life to the next.  Also, all mutants move at a slow
 rate.  In the "MEDIUM" mode, the aliens move slightly faster.  In
 the "HARD" mode, filled-in framework resets and dead mutants
 resurrect from one life to the next.  Finally, in the "C'MON" mode,
 the bonus timer starts with 1000 less.

 BONUS TIMER
 This four digit timer is located at the top of every level.  It
 indicates how much time is left for Bounty bob to complete the
 level.  When it counts below 1000, it will flash to indicated that
 Bob is running out of air.  Bob's face will also flash as his tiny
 lungs gasp for air.  When the timer reaches zero Bounty Bob will be
 out of air and he will implode!

 EMERGENCY HELP
 It is possible in certain levels to be trapped in an area where no
 escape, not even death, is possible.  Normally you would have to
 wait for the bonus timer to count down.  If you find yourself in
 this situation, type in Big Five's phone number (numbers only -- no
 spaces or parentheses) on the keyboard.  This number can be found at
 the bottom of the main title screen.  This will give you "special
 help" to get you out of that situation!

 GAME ADJUSTMENT SCREEN
 Press OPTION to enter this mode on the Atari home computers.  On the
 Atari 5200 system first press RESET to return to the high score
 display or the main title screen and then press the "*" key.  There
 are twelve different game parameters you can adjust.  The line you
 are currently on is indicated by a solid strip of background color
 and the flashing parameter setting.  To go to a different line,
 press the joystick up or down.  To adjust the parameter setting
 press the joystick left or right until the desired setting appears.
 The last line labeled "SPECIAL CODE" is for exclusive use by Big
 Five programming personnel.  After setting a number, Option (or "*"
 on the 5200) is pressed to activate a special code sequence.

 DEMO MODE
 If the game is not being played and it is not in the pause mode the
 program will cycle through the high score display screen, the main
 title display screen, and a demonstration of level one.  Beginners
 should watch this demo a few times to get an understanding of how to
 play.

 CREDITS
 Programmed by Bill Hogue / Computer graphics designed by Curtis
 Mikolyski and Bill Hogue / Music by Jeff Zinn
 Poster and box graphic designed by Curtis Mikolyski / Poster and box
 paintings by Kathy Swain
 Mine History compiled by Bill Hogue and Curtis Mikolyski
 Project supervision by Dos Cartwright / Travel arrangements courtesy
 of ZinnAir Ltd.
 Champagne supplied by Bob Travis / Corks launched by Jeff Konyu /
 Corks retrieved by Nugget and Pokey
 Conversion licenses available from International Computer Group,
 Chatsworth CA
 Made in USA
 Copyright (C) 1984 by Big Five Software
 Bounty Bob Strikes Back, Bounty Bob and Yukon Yohan are registered
 trademarks of Big Five Software

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
