
 RIVER RAID

 BY ACTIVISION

 River Raid Plan of Operation

 Activision 5200 Series FZ-002-03

 Page 1)

 YOUR MISSION IS...to score as many points as possible by destroying
 enemy battleships, helicopters, fuel depots, jets, land tanks, hot
 air balloons, and bridges before your jet crashes or runs out of
 fuel.

 Initial Setup

 1. Insert cartridge into your Atari 5200 console with the power
 OFF.  Then, turn power on.
 2. Plug in controller(s). Solo player uses left controller.
 3. Slip keypad overlay onto controller(s)
 4. Select game variation by pressing appropriate number on controller
 keypad.  There are 8 variations (see chart).
 5. To begin or start a new game at any time, press the START key.
 6. To select a new game variation, press the RESET key. Then select
 desired game.
 7. To start the action, press the lower RED BUTTON on either side of
 your controller.
 8. Pause the action whenever you like by pressing the PAUSE key on
 your controller. To resume the game, press the same key again or
 press the red button on either side of your controller.
 9. Turn power OFF before removing RIVER RAID cartridge.

 Page 2)

 ORIENTATION

 The River of No Return.  The river is divided into sections, with a
 bridge at the end of each section.  You will encounter islands,
 narrow channels, bays and lots of enemy air, land and water craft
 moving in to block your path. Also, the farther down the river you
 fly, the more harrowing things get.

 The current bridge number is displayed on-screen and is an indication
 of your progress up the river.  It is updated whenever a bridge is
 destroyed.  Advanced pilots may start the game at later bridges,
 bypassing the easier sections of the river.  Here are your options:

 Game Variation Chart:
 Game Number         Starting Bridge       Number of Players
     1                       1                    ONE
     2                       1                    TWO
     3                       5                    ONE
     4                       5                    TWO
     5                      20                    ONE
     6                      20                    TWO
     7                      50                    ONE
     8                      50                    TWO

 Your jet fighter will bank to the left or rightm when you move
 the control stick left or right.  To accelerate, push it forward.  To
 slow down, pull it back.  There are a wide range of left/right and
 forward speeds.  Remember:  Center your control stick before you
 start moving to prevent a crash.  Press the lower red button on
 either side of the controller to fire missiles (hold for continuous
 fire).

 Page 3)

 Your Squadron: You'll begin with four jets (one active, three on
 reserve).  With each 10,000-point increase, you're given an
 additional jet.  You lose a jet when it runs out of fuel, or touches
 anything except a fuel depot or the brown river bank.  River Raid
 ends when all of your jets are lost.

 Fuel Gauge: Always keep an eye and an ear on your fuel gauge.  Fuel
 is used up at a constant rate, regardless of speed.  When your fuel
 drops below 1/4 full, a warning siren sounds off to alert you.  To
 refuel, fly over a fuel depot.  The slower you fly over it, the more
 fuel you will receive. A bell will sound when you are refueling. This
 sound changes to a higher pitch when your fuel tank is full.  If you
 don't need fuel, you can blow up the fuel depot.  But keep in mind
 that the farther down the river you fly, the fewer fuel depots you'll
 find.

 Land Tanks appear on the road at the first bridge.  Beginning with
 bridge 7, they'll dodge up to the shoreline and commence shooting.
 You can fly right through their line of fire, but avoid the
 explosions they cause on the river.

 Page 4)

 Scoring

 Target            Points
 Battleship          30
 Helicopter          60
 Balloon             60
 Fuel Depot          80
 Enemy Jet          100
 Helicopter Gunner  150
 Bridge             500
 Bridge with Tank   750

 Join the Activision "River Raiders"

 If you reach a score of 40,000 points or more, you are eligible for
 the official rank of River Raider.  Just send us a picture of your
 TV screen showing your score along with your name and address, and
 we'll send you an official River Raider emblem.  Be sure to write
 "River Raid, 5200" and your score on the front corner of the
 envelope.

 Page 5)

 "How to raid the river..."

 Tips from Carol Shaw.  Carol is a first class game designer and a
 computer science scholar.  She's also a serious bicyclist, and can
 often be found cycling through the wilds of her native California
 coast.  Her most recent hit was Happy Trails for Intellivision.

 "The River of No Return holds many special challenges and dangers
 for would-be River Raiders.  You'll not only have to know your
 assault jet, but you'll need to have a good idea of your basic flight
 plan before you start.

 By knowing the river, pinpointing the areas with the highest
 concentration of enemy, AND the most fuel depots, you'll have a much
 better chance of surviving.  Since the river is in sections, try
 jotting down notes for each important section as flight aids.

 Fuel is also a critical factor. When you're far up the river, fuel
 is scarce.  Hence, flying to the next fuel depot should be your
 top priority.

 When you become really skilled, you'll find that you can actually
 blow up the fuel depot right in the middle of refueling.  That way,
 you can gain the points and some fuel at the same time.

 Remember that a bridge with a tank on it is worth the most
 points.  Practice timing your bridge approaches so you can fire
 while a tank is crossing.

 If you make it back to Allied territory and need some R and R, kick
 back and drop me a note.  I'm always up for a high-flying tale."

 Carol B. Shaw (signed)

 Page 6)  Activision Warranty

 Page 7)

 Let us get to know you!  If you have any questions or comments
 about our games or clubs, or want to be added to our mailing list,
 drop us a note or call the "Game Hotline" at 1-800-633-GAME. In
 California, call (415) 940-6044 or (415) 940-6045.

 ACTIVISION

 Activision, INC.  Drawer 7287, Mountain View, CA 94039
 (C)1982, 1983 Activision FZ-002-03

 END

 Typed by Dan Reinholtz (sammy97@niu.edu)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
