
 CHOPLIFTER

 BY ATARI, INC.

 SAVE THE HOSTAGES!

 Get ready for the most heroic adventure imaginable!  Sixty-four
 frightened United Nations diplomats are being held hostage behind
 enemy lines, and it's up to you to rescue them.  In the dead of
 night, you pilot your smuggled helicopter from the isolated post
 office serving as rescue-mission headquarters, past defending tanks,
 jets, and guided missiles.  You pick up as many people as your
 chopper will hold and carry them to freedom.  Keep a sharp eye out,
 though -- the enemy, a nation of lunatics called Bungelings, will be
 there at every turn to thwart you!

 GETTING STARTED
 ---------------

 Insert the CHOPLIFTER! cartridge as explained in your 5200
 SuperSystem owner's guide, and turn on your system.

 Plug a joystick controller into jack 1 to play.

 Press START to begin your mission.

 Press PAUSE to stop during a game; press it again to resume play.

 Press RESET to start the game over when you're in the middile of it.

 MISSION INSTRUCTIONS: MANEUVERING YOUR CHOPPER
 ----------------------------------------------

 The hostages are being held in barraks inside enemy territory.  Use
 your joystick to pilot your chopper.  Press either top fire button
 to blast at oncoming enemy targets.  Press either bottom fire button
 to turn your helicopter forward to shoot tanks, or to turn your
 chopper completely around.

 Some of the barracks have been blown open by enemy fire -- you can
 see the hostages scrambling to be saved, waving frantically for your
 attention.  Use your joystick to set down your chopper and pick them
 up.  Once aboard, it's your job to pilot them safely back to rescue-
 mission headquarters and drop them off.

 Your mission consists of a total of three sorties to save as many
 hostages as you can.  Of course, the people of the world are
 depending on you to rescue them all.  The game ends when you lose
 your third helicopter, or the 64 hostages are saved or lost to the
 enemy.

 SCORING
 -------

 A tally at the top of your screen shows, from left to right, the
 number of hostages lost, the number inside the helicopter (which
 has a seating capacity of 16), and the number successfully rescued.

 STRATEGY CLUES
 --------------

 * Don't land on the hostages -- it's a deadly maneuver.

 * Guided enemy missiles can attack you on your side of the barrier;
   tanks and jets can't.

 * You can only pick up those hostages that have been freed from the
   locked barracks.  One way to help them escape, is to position your
   chopper in front of a barrack and wait for a tank to fire a shot
   towards you.  In many instances the tank will blow a hole in the
   side of the barrack and the hostages will come running out.

 * The hostages are extremely frightened and need assistance in
   getting out of the helicopter.  Make sure you land directly on the
   cement landing pad next to the post office, or they'll refuse to
   get out.

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
