
 DIG DUG

 BY ATARI

 Insert your 5200 game cartridge so the label faces you and reads
 right-side-up.  Be sure the cartridge is firmly seated in the
 center slot of the console, but do not force it.  Then press the
 POWER switch on.  See your owner's manual for further details.

 GAME OBJECTIVE

 Keep Dig Dug alive on his quest for points and vegetable treasures.
  You'll score points for digging as well as finding treasure.  But
 beware of Pooka, the renegade balloon, and Fygar, the fire-
 breathing dragon.  They'll stop you in your tracks if they catch
 you.

 Earn points in DIG DUG four different ways:  by tunneling through
 the dirt of the underworld, by blowing up Pooka or Fygar with your
 pump, by dropping rocks on top of Pooka and Fygar, or by eating the
 vegetables that appear in the middle of the screen.

 At the start of the game you have three lives.  You can also earn
 bonus lives; the first bonus life is earned at 10,000 points, the
 second bonus life at 40,000, and each following bonus life at
 40,000 point intervals.

 A round is completed when all monsters are killed or escape from
 the screen.  The round is indicated by the number of flowers on the
 upper right of the screen.  Each small flower represents one round;
 each large flower represents ten rounds.

 GAME PLAY

 Use your joystick to make Dig Dug tunnel through the underworld.
 He'll move up, down, right, or left in the same direction you move
 the joystick.

 To use your pump against Pooka or Fygar, press any of the red fire
 buttons on your controller.  If you continue pressing the button,
 your victim will eventually explode.  If you let go of the fire
 button before the monster pops, it will slowly deflate and continue
 the chase.  Dig Dug is safe from the monsters while they are
 partially inflated--in fact, Dig Dug can run straight through
 partially inflated monsters.

 Drop rocks on monsters by digging away dirt from beneath the rocks.
  Move out of the way quickly, though, or you'll be pulverized by
 the falling rock.  The underworld is divided into four layers (see
 Figure 7).  You'll score more points for exploding monsters in the
 bottom layers than the top layers; lure monsters to lower levels by
 letting them chase you as You tunnel down.

 Score bonus points by running over the vegetables that appear in
 the center of your screen.  Vegetables only appear for a short
 time, so when you see one, grab it quickly.

 Pooka and Fygar often turn into ghosts and will float through the
 dirt to find you.  Ghosts are invulnerable until they reach the air
 of a tunnel.

 USING THE CONTROLLERS

 Plug one 5200 controller firmly into jack 1 for one-player games;
 plug a second controller into jack 2 for two-player games.  The
 player using jack one controls game selection and starts the game.

 CONTROL KEYS

 Press START to begin the game.  Press PAUSE once to stop the game
 and again to restart the action.  Press PAUSE then RESET to return
 to the option screen, in order to begin another game at a new
 difficulty level.

 GAME OPTIONS

 The vegetable at the center of the screen indicates the game level.
  Press the * to choose one of 12 game levels:  Carrot, Rutabaga,
 Mushroom, Cucumber, Eggplant, Bell Pepper, Tomato, Onion,
 Watermelon, Galaxian, or Pineapple.  The game levels become
 progressively more difficult:  the number of monsters increases,
 the game play becomes faster, and the monsters become more
 difficult to avoid.

 You can continue playing the same game of DIG DUG after losing your
 last life by pressing any red fire button when GAME OVER appears on
 the screen.  You'll receive three additional lives, and the score
 and game level will remain unchanged.

 You may also select a beginner game level, indicated by a teddy
 bear.  Press the * until a teddy bear symbol appears at the center
 of the screen.

 Press the # key to select a one-player or two-player game.  When
 you've selected the appropriate game options, press START to begin
 the game.

 SCORING

 Vegetables   Round    Points
 ----------------------------
 Carrot             1     400
 Rutabaga           2     600
 Mushroom           3     800
 Cucumber       4 & 5   1,000
 Eggplant       6 & 7   2,000
 Bell Pepper    8 & 9   3,000
 Tomato       10 & 11   4,000
 Onion        12 & 13   5,000
 Watermelon   14 & 15   6,000
 Galaxian     16 & 17   7,000
 Pineapple      18 on   8,000

 Activity          Point Value
 -----------------------------
 Digging    5 points per chunk

 Destroying monsters by dropping rocks:
 1 monster               1,000
 2 monsters at once      2,500
 3 monsters at once      4,000
 4 monsters at once      6,000
 5 monsters at once      8,000
 6 monsters at once     10,000
 7 monsters at once     12,000

 Exploding Pooka from any direction, or exploding Fygar from above
 or below:
 1st soil layer            200
 2nd soil layer            300
 3rd soil layer            400
 4th soil layer            500

 Exploding Fygar from the side:
 1st soil layer            400
 2nd soil layer            600
 3rd soil layer            800
 4th soil layer           1000

 STRATEGY

 * Drop rocks on monsters by digging a long tunnel beneath a rock.
  Keep the rock from falling on you by keeping forward pressure on
 your joystick; when a monster runs close behind, turn away and let
 the rock fall.

 * Use your pump to temporarily stun monsters, so you can lure more
 than one monster behind you.  When you have a line of monsters
 chasing you, head for the nearest rock and drop it on them--fast!

 * Bonus vegetables only will appear after two rocks have been
 dislodged, and will remain for only ten seconds.  For maximum
 points, be sure to drop at least two rocks then grab the vegetable
 before moving to the next round.

 * You'll score more points by popping a Fygar from the side, so use
 your pump to stun the dragon while you move to his side.  Then
 finish pumping Fygar until he explodes.

 * Fygar's deadly fire can reach you through a thin wall of dirt--so
 stay out of his way when he stops moving.

 END

 Typed by Jay Tilton (tiltonj@erols.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
