
 FROGGER II: THREEDEEP!

 BY PARKER BROTHERS

 Look who's resurfaced in an all new adventure.  It's Frogger!  Three
 distincly different screens take our fearless frog on another
 homeward bound journey, but this time it's underwater, over water and
 through the air!  Frogger must swim against strong currents, whisk
 over wales and hippos, sidestep snapping barracudas, spring from
 cloud trampolines to high-flying birds and so much more.  So, Frogger
 lovers, kiss your lily pads good-bye and get set for some fast and
 frantic fun!

 SETTING THE CONSOLE CONTROLS
 ----------------------------

 1.  Place the cartridge firmly into the cartridge slot.
 2.  Since this is a one-player game, plug a joystick controller into
     the #1 jack.
 3.  Press the POWER ON/OFF button.
 4.  Press * to choose either the joystick or keypad option as
     indicated at the top of the screen.
 5.  Press # to choose to begin at either Level 1 or Level 3 as
     indicated at the top of the screen.
 6.  Press START or RESET to begin.

 At any time during the game, you may start over again by pressing
 START or RESET.  If you wish to start over with new game options,
 press either * or #.

 THE JOYSTICK CONTROLLER
 -----------------------

 Using the joystick option:

 The joystick controls Frogger's movement forward, backward, left or
 right.  To hop Frogger in these directions, press either (or both)
 bottom FIRE buttons while you tilt the joystick in the desired
 direction.  Don't keep the FIRE buttons pressed down.

 Using the keypad option:

 The diagram shows which keypad buttons to press in order to hop
 Frogger in the desired direction.

           2

           ^
           |
           |
 4  <------------->  6
           |
           |
           v

           8

 OBJECT
 ------

 To get Frogger safely into the required number of home berths.  Home
 berths are dispersed among the three different screens: underwater,
 on the water's surface, and in the air.  In Level 1, for instance,
 there are five home berths; three in the underwater screen, and one
 each in the surface and air screens.  Frogger need not reach any of
 the home berths in one screen before he goes to the next.  As you'll
 see, Frogger may travel from one screen to another without loss of
 life.  To advance to a higher difficulty, however, Frogger must fill
 all open berths in each of the three screens.

 There are bonus points to be had in each screen, too.  But you'll
 collect them only if you take Frogger to an open berth on that same
 sreen!

 PLAYING
 -------

 In this game, Frogger has five lives.  Remaining lives appear in the
 form of frogs at the bottom of the screen.  The remaining number of
 berths to be filled appears at the top of the screen.  Frogger's got
 a time band to watch out for, too.  If he doesn't make it to a berth
 by the time the band runs down, it's bye-bye, Frogger.  Before this
 happens, however, you'll hear a warning sound and see the band at the
 top of the screen turn red.

 When Frogger loses a life, he returns to the first screen with his
 remaining lives.

 SCREEN 1: UNDERWATER FROGGER
 ----------------------------

 Deep down, Frogger knows he's got his work cut out for him on this
 first leg of the journey.  Here's what Frogger should know as he
 tries to reach the log berths at the top of the screen:

 Alligators and snapping barracudas:  In a word, "deadly."  Don't
 touch any part of them.

 Floating off screen:  Floating off screen will finish Frogger off in
 a flash, so be careful about drifting in the strong current.

 Little fish and tiny fish:  These creatures aren't nearly as nasty as
 their neighbors.  They won't hurt Frogger, but they can make it a bit
 more difficult for him to reach the log berths.

 Joe the diving turtle:  Joe is pretty nice to frogs.  When he gives
 Frogger a free ride on his back, Frogger is safe from everybody else.
 Also, when he's with Joe, Frogger can't be hurt by drifting off
 screen.  The two of them will wrap around to the other side.

 Bubbles:  Catch the air bubbles that float up from the bottom, and
 you'll earn bonus points.  Remember that the bonus points count only
 if Frogger gets home on this screen!

 Larry the eel:  In all levels except Level 1, Larry the eel blows the
 bubbles from the ocean floor.  Watch out because Larry can
 'eeliminate' you!

 Getting to the surface:  Frogger can reach the next level in two
 ways:
 a)  By jumping into a log berth that's already filled.
 b)  By jumping onto the ends or wooden underside of any log.

 Remember: You do not have to fill any of the log berths in order to
 reach the next screen.

 SCREEN II: SURFACE FROGGER
 --------------------------

 Frogger can't swim very well on the surface.  So the only way he can
 make it to the life preserver berth is to hop from one creature or
 object in a row to another in the next row.

 If Frogger falls into the water, he sinks all the way down to the
 bottom of the underwater screen without loss of life.  Remember,
 however, he may lose valuable time!

 Logs:  Logs always make safe passage.

 Lily pads:  Lily pads are safe to pass on and you earn bonus points
 each time you do. (The bonus points count ONLY when you take Frogger
 home on that screen.)  The lily pad disappears when you leave it.

 Alligators:  Alligators are as harmless as logs.

 Baby ducks and Mama Duck:  Baby ducks are happy to give Frogger a
 lift.  But don't let Mama Duck catch him at it, or she'll come
 after him!

 Hippos:  Hippos mean well.  They're perfectly safe to ride on, but in
 higher levels, they like to shake.  If Frogger is on board when they
 start, it's into the drink for our fearless friend.

 Whales:  Take a ride on a whale.  It's fun!  But if it dives, under
 the water Frogger goes!

 Turtles:  Frogger is perfectly safe riding turtleback.  Turtles
 have no tricks up their shells.

 Sharks:  On higher levels, sharks skim the lily pads.  Frogs beware
 when you hear the shark warning!

 Tugboat:  Try not to hit the tugboat.  It's the life preserver berth
 Frogger is heading for.

 Floating off screen:  Don't let this happen!

 Super bonus points:  Can you discover how to earn them?

 Getting into the air:  The ONLY way to get airborne is to jump onto
 Mama duck who flaps her wings and flies Frogger there.  Just remember
 that she won't do Frogger this favor when he's riding with her
 babies!

 SCREEN III: AIRBORNE FROGGER
 ----------------------------

 In this screen, our hero finds himself on a large cloud.  This cloud
 has a lot of spring, so start bouncing Frogger up and down, holding
 the joystick UP to bounce higher and higher, DIAGONALLY to bounce
 sideways and DOWN to stop bouncing. (If you're using the joystick
 option, you don't need to use the FIRE button to bounce on the cloud.
 If you're using the keypad option, you must press the #2 button each
 time you want to bounce higher; the #4 or #6 button to jump
 diagonally; the #8 button to stop bouncing.)  The trick is to hop
 onto a bird, then keep hopping from row to row until Frogger reaches
 the cloud berth.

 Butterflies:  Yum!  Frogger loves to eat butterflies and each time
 he does, he receives bonus points (and ekeeps them when he makes it
 home on that screen).  He pays a certain price for it, though,
 because for each butterfly he gobbles, a hole opens (or widens) in
 the cloud -- a hole that Frogger might fall through!

 In higher levels Beulah Blackwing, the beautiful black butterfly,
 appears.  Beulah is nobody's snack, so stay out of her way!

 Clyde the flying dragon:  Because Clyde loves those pretty little
 butterflies, he stays close by to protect them.  He doesn't do this
 for Frogger, so don't run into him.

 Birds:  All of the birds are glad to give Frogger a ride.  If Frogger
 should miss a connection and fall, he may be caught by a cloud,
 unless, of course, he falls through a hole.

 The Airplane:  In higher levels, an airplane appears at the top of
 the screen.  Stay away from it!  Little frogs are not meant to ride
 airplanes.

 The Stork:  Every 10,000 points, a stork appears at the top of the
 screen.  If Frogger hops a ride with him, what does he get?  Why, a
 baby frog, of course!  The baby frog gives Frogger another chance to
 stay in the game.

 Flying or bouncing off screen:  Don't let this happen!

 Falling through a hole in the cloud:  If Frogger falls onto a LOG, he
 ends up in the surface screen.  If Frogger falls into the WATER, he
 ends up in the underwater screen.

 DIFFICULTY LEVELS
 -----------------

 As the game progresses from level to level, the speed and density of
 obstacles increase, making the game more and more challenging.  There
 are nine levels in all.

 END OF GAME
 -----------

 The game ends when Frogger loses his last life.  To play again, press
 START or RESET.

 SCORING
 -------

 Reaching a home berth ...................... 1000 points
 Advancing a row ............................   15 points
 Time remaining .................... 32 points per second

 Bonus points:
 Jumping off a lily pad .....................   25 points
 Eating an air bubble .......................  100 points
 Eating a butterfly .........................  100 points

 Note:  Bonus points are collected only when Frogger reaches a home
 berth on that same screen.

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
