
 FROGGER

 BY PARKER BROTHERS

 Leapin' Frogger!  Home may look like it's only a hop, skip, and a
 jump away, but looks can be deceiving.  First, there's a dangerous
 highway to hop across.  Then there's a raging river to leap, full of
 tricky diving turtles and frog-eating creatures.  How's Frogger going
 to get home safely?  By letting YOU guide him through his perilous
 journey!

 OBJECT
 ------

 The object of the game is to hope as many frogs to safety as you
 can -- and to score the most points along the way!

 SETTING THE CONSOLE CONTROLS
 ----------------------------

 1.  Make sure the cartridge is placed firmly into the cartridge slot.
     Then plug one or two hand-held controllers into controller jacks
     labeled "1" and "2."  Use the controller in the "1" jack for a
     one-player game.

 2.  Press the OFF/ON switch to ON.

 3.  Place a keypad overlay onto each keypad, as shown in the
     illustration, then select the game options you desire:

     * Press down the "1-2 PLAYER" button (keypad button "#") to
       choose a 1- or 2-player game.  You'll see "2 UP" on the bottom
       center of the screen to indicate a 2-player game.

     * Press down the FAST/SLOW button (keypad button "*") to choose
       the speed of the game -- slow or fast.  The speed is indicated
       in the upper left-hand corner of the screen.

     * Press down the JOYSTICK/KEYPAD button (keypad button "O" to
       choose whether you'll play with the joystick or the keypad.
       You'll see your choice indicated next to the speed at the top
       of the screen.

 4.  Press down the START or RESET button on the controller on the "1"
     jack to begin play.

 USING THE KEYPAD OR JOYSTICK
 ----------------------------

 Keypad:  Using four keypad buttons to control the direction of
 Frogger's movement.  Press button #2 to hop Frogger forward, button
 #8 to hop Frogger backward, button #4 to hop Frogger left, and button
 #6 to hop Frogger right.

 Joystick:  Use the joystick to turn Frogger in the direction you wish
 him to hop.  Then press AND COMPLETELY RELEASE the lower fire button
 on the side of the controller to hop Frogger once in that direction.

 Note:  The frantic pace of Frogger may leave you breathless, but
 don't try to catch your breath with the PAUSE button.  There's no
 stopping the fast-paced action of the game!

 PLAYING
 -------

 This illustration shows the journey Frogger has to make -- from the
 grass to the home bay.

 You'll start the game with 5 frogs.  The first frog is shown on the
 grass below the traffic.  The remaining frogs are shown on the upper
 right-hand corner of the screen.

 TIME BAND
 ---------

 You have only a limited amount of time to move your frogs from the
 grass and into a home bay.

 Time is monitored by the time band, and line located next to the word
 "TIME" at the bottom of the screen.  You have approximately 30
 seconds to move each frog home.  When you have only a short amount
 of time left, you'll hear a warning sound and see the word "TIME" and
 the time band change colors.  If you run out of time before you get
 a frog hom, you'll hear a "splat" sound and see a skull and
 crossbones symbol on the spot where the frog was when the time ran
 out.

 FROM GRASS TO SIDEWALK
 ----------------------

 Your frogs start on the grass, facing four lanes of traffic.  As soon
 as the music starts to play, the time band starts to move -- so start
 your frog hopping!

 Try to get through the lanes of traffic to the sidewalk.  Traffic
 travels in alternating directions and at different speeds, so be
 careful.  Your frog will get "splatted" if he touches any part of a
 vehicle or is run over!

 FROM SIDEWALK TO RIVER
 ----------------------

 Because the current in the river is too strong, your frogs have to
 hop onto objects on the river to get to their home.  There are three
 different objects your frogs can use:

 1.  Logs: Your frog can hop from side to side on a log; h can also
     jump forward and backward onto another floating object.  But he
     can't jump onto another floating object from the left or right
     off a log.

 2.  Turtles: Your frog can hop onto a turtle's back, as well as
     between a group of two or three of thm.  He can jump forward or
     backward from a turtle onto another floating object.  But he
     can't jump onto another floating object from the left or right
     off either of the end turtles.

 3.  Diving Turtles: These tricky turtles can float on the water and
     dive under the water!  It's okay to jump your frog onto the back
     of a partially submerged turtle.  However, be prepared to hop
     onto another object fast before the turtle dives!

 While crossing a river, here are some other things to watch for:

 1.  Pink Frog: Occassionally, you'll see a pink "lady" frog on a log.
     Hope your frog onto her to pick her up.  Now try to get her --
     and your frog -- home to safety.  When you do, you'll see the
     amount of bonus points you earned in white numerals in the home
     bay.

 2.  Alligators: It's safe for your frog to jump onto an alligator's
     back, but your frog's a goner if he jumps onto the alligator's
     jaws!

 3.  Snakes: Snakes will appear on the sidewalk and logs as the game
     gets more difficult.  It's safe for your frog to jump onto a
     snake's body, but not onto a snake's head.

 FROM RIVER TO HOME BAY
 ----------------------

 Successfully hop a frog into a home bay, and he's home safe and
 sound!  You score points each time you bring a frog home, and you'll
 get extra points every time you bring five frogs home.

 When leaping a frog into a home bay, here are some things to watch
 for:

 1.  Jumping Home: Hop your frog into a home bay when he's DIRECTLY
     in front of it.  If your frog hits any part of the shrubbery on
     the sides of the home, you'll lose him.

 2.  Occupied Home Bay: A frog can't jump into a home bay that's
     occupied by another frog.

 3.  Alligator's Head: When an alligator's head is showing in a home
     bay, it's not safe for your frog to jump in.

 4.  Bonus Fly: When you hop your frog into a home bay that has a fly
     in it, your frog gets a free meal! -- and you get bonus points.

 GAME DIFFICULTY
 ---------------

 Every time you bring five frogs home, you'll hear a short tune.
 Then the game will continue at a more difficult game level with your
 remaining frogs.  The speed of the cars will vary from lane to lane.
 The speed of the cars will vary from lane to lane.  Traffic patterns
 will change.  There will be fewer floating objects on the river, and
 the speed of the objects will vary from fast to slow.  Frog-eating
 snakes will also appear on the sidewalk and on some of the logs.

 END OF GAME
 -----------

 The game ends when no frogs are left.

 To Play Again: Press the START or RESET button on the controller in
 the "1" jack to play again at the same speed and with the same number
 of players.  To change the game's speed or number of players, refer
 to the instructions under "Setting the Console Controls."

 TWO-PLAYER GAMES
 ----------------

 The left player goes first; players then alternate turns.  At the
 start of your turn, you may press the FAST/SLOW button to change the
 speed at which you play your portion of the game.

 The left player's score is on the bottom left side of the screen; the
 right player's score is on the bottom right side of the screen.  The
 score will show in white numerals during a player's turn; the other
 player's score will be shown in green numerals.

 Your turn ends when you lose a frog; you begin your turn again with
 your remaining frogs.  The game ends once both players have lost all
 their frogs.

 SCORING
 -------

 In a one-player game, your score is displayed throughout the game in
 white numerals at the bottom of the screen.  Points accumulate as
 follows:

 Successfully jumping frog forward ................... 10 points
 Successfully jumping a frog into a home bad.......... 50 points
 Successfully jumping five frogs home .............. 1000 points
 Rescuing a pink "lady" frog ........................ 200 points
 Eating a bonus fly ................................. 200 points
 Taking a frog home before its time is up ............ 10 points
                                            per remaining second

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
