
 GALAXIAN

 BY ATARI, INC.

 To insert your 5200 game cartridge, hold the cartridge so that the
 name on the label faces you and reads right-side-up.  Then carefully
 insert the cartridge into the slot in the center of the console.  Be
 sure the cartridge is firmly seated, but do not force it.  The POWER
 ON/OFF switch is located on the bottom right side of the ATARI 5200.
 Press this switch to turn the power on AFTER inserting your game
 cartridge.  See your Owners Manual for further information.

 (C)1982 ATARI, INC.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 1. The Galaxian Invasion
 2. Game Objective
 3. Using The 5200 Controllers
 4. Trak-Ball Option
 5. Scoring
 6. Skill Levels
 7. Game Strategy

 DEFEND THE PLANET!

 1. THE GALAXIAN INVASION

 What an induction!  You no sooner join the Intergalactic Warrior
 Fleet than the explosion hits.  Suddenly the planet is under attack.
 Without prior training, you have to complete your first mission--
 defending the planet.  On the job combat is the only way to learn, so
 you have to go out there and do your duty.  Shaking in your boots,
 you accept the assignment and board your intergalactic command ship.

 You soon find out that this invasion has something to do with a
 centuries-old interstellar war.  As a result of this war, the
 Galaxian government lost many planets.  Now they are fighting to
 reclaim their lost territories.  Knowing they have no right to your
 planet, you're ready to put your life on the line and fight to the
 bitter end.

 The Galaxian invasion starts off with a bang.  Instantly, an entire
 fleet of invaders descends toward the planet.  The command ship
 suddenly becomes the target of a missile ambush.  The Galaxian fleet
 is fast and strong.  They attack in waves, approaching faster and
 faster with each wave.  They swoop downward, firing laser cannons.
 The majority of them charge in single file; others blitz in groups.

 Flagships never fly alone, for they are always flanked by protective
 Escorts.  Their colorful uniforms make their ranking order easy to
 identify.  Drones, the lowest rank, wear blue; Emissaries wear
 purple; Hornets are outfitted in red; and Flagship Commanders, the
 highest rank of all, wear yellow.

 The Galaxian fleet is smart and experienced in battle.  They have
 special radar that enables them to dodge intergalactic missiles.
 Their warfare includes tricks to divert attention.  The Galaxian
 ability to pull off unexpected surprises forces you to use foresight
 and caution, plus cunning and skill.

 Nevertheless, the initial attack is thwarted.  But the battle isn't
 over yet.  They'll be back, stronger than ever.  Next time, you'll be
 manning the command ship, again waiting courageously to defend the
 planet and defeat the Galaxian fleet.  Use your accurate aim and
 quick reflexes, as well as strategy and forethought.  A foolish move
 could cost you the battle and the planet.

 2. GAME OBJECTIVE

 Your game objective is to destroy the Galaxian fleet before it
 destroys you.  In doing so, you score points--the player with the
 most points wins.  Galaxian battle strategy is to attack in a
 succession of accelerating waves; each wave fiercer than the last.
 Waves are depicted with flags at the top, right corner of the screen
 (see Figure 1 for flags).  One flag appears during the first wave,
 two flags during the second wave, and so on.  There is a total of 32
 waves in the GALAXIAN game; if you survive beyond wave 16, you're a
 real pro.

 You start the game with three intergalactic command ships--one at the
 line of battle and two reserves at the top, center of the screen as
 shown in Figure 1.  Slide your command ship right and left to dodge
 Galaxian fire.  At the same time, fire intergalactic missiles to
 protect your command ship.  You lose a command ship each time it is
 hit by either a Galaxian missile or a collision with a Galaxian.
 When all three command ships have been destroyed, the game is over.

 The Galaxian fleet lines up in ranking order before individually
 plunging down, bombarding your ship, and then flying back to the
 lineup.  That is, if you don't shoot them first!  These creatures are
 cagey, they'll tease you, diving down, firing, and then dodging your
 intergalactic fire.  The excitement builds as the battle gets
 tougher.  This game requires some quick evasive action and lots of
 planned strategy.  The longer you survive, the more surprises you're
 in for.  You never know what the Galaxian fleet has up their sleeves.
 Be on the lookout for just about anything.

      Figure 1

 3. USING THE 5200 CONTROLLERS

 Use your 5200 controllers with this ATARI game cartridge.  Be sure to
 plug the controller cables firmly into the jacks at the front of the
 5200 console.  Plug the controller into jack 1 for one-player games;
 use jacks 1 and 2 for two-player games, or let both players use the
 same controller.  To share a controller, simply pass the controller
 between turns.

 Before starting your first game, initiate the Galaxian fleet by
 pushing the joystick all the way to the right and left.

   [Photo of the 5200 controller.]
      Figure 2

 KEYPAD OVERLAYS

 For your convenience, two keypad overlays are included with this
 game.  Slip the tabs into the slots above and below the keypad on the
 controller.  See your 5200 Owner's Manual for further details.

       1           2           3
    --------    --------    --------
   |        |  |        |  |        |
   |        |  |        |  |        |
    --------    --------    --------
       4           5           6
    --------    --------    --------
   |        |  |        |  |        |
   |        |  |        |  |        |
    --------    --------    --------
       7           8           9
    --------    --------    --------
   |        |  |        |  |        |
   |        |  |        |  |        |
    --------    --------    --------
      EASY         0       1-2 PLAYERS
    --------    --------    --------
   |        |  |        |  |        |
   |        |  |        |  |        |
    --------    --------    --------

      Figure 3

 Press the # controller button to choose a one-player game or a
 two-player game.  Your choice is displayed in the center of the
 screen as shown in Figure 4.

 Press the * controller button to play the easiest version, a yellow
 0 appears in the upper left corner of the screen.  This easy game
 variation may be helpful for children or first-time GALAXIAN players.
 Game play begins immediately after the button is pressed.

 Keypad buttons 0 through 9 indicate skill levels--0 for novice and 9
 for expert.  Press the appropriate button to choose the level that is
 right for you (see SKILL LEVELS, Section 6).  After the game number
 is displayed on the upper, left corner of the screen (see Figure 4),
 the game will begin immediately.

   [Screenshot with "ONE PLAYER" in the middle of the playfield.]
      Figure 4

 Use the joystick to guide the command ship right and left across the
 screen.  Push the joystick right to move right; push it left to move
 left.  Press the bottom, right or bottom, left fire button to shoot
 intergalactic missiles.  The top, fire buttons are not used.  See
 Figure 5 for controller use.

   [Diagram showing which directions you need to push the stick to
   move the ship left or right.  You can probably figure it out
   without benefit of the actual figure.]
      Figure 5

 Press the START button to start a game at level 0 or to restart a
 game that has just ended.

 Press RESET to reset the game.

 Press PAUSE any time during game play to freeze the action.  Press
 PAUSE again to release the freeze.

 4. TRAK-BALL OPTION (Future Accessory)

 This GALAXIAN game cartridge offers a TRAK-BALL option.  An ATARI
 TRAK-BALL may be purchased separately.  To play a GALAXIAN game with
 a TRAK-BALL, plug the TRAK-BALL into jack 1 at the front of the 5200
 console.  To select the number of players and game level, follow the
 instructions in Section 3, USING THE 5200 CONTROLLERS.  You do not
 need a separate TRAK-BALL for each player.  Simply pass the TRAK-BALL
 from player to player as each turn comes up.

 5. SCORING

 Point scoring depends upon the military rank of each Galaxian you
 destroy (see Figure 6 and POINT VALUES TABLE).  You start the game
 with three command ships.  A bonus command ship is earned after the
 first 5000 points you score.  When it is your turn, your score
 appears at the top, center of the screen.  Your opponent's score
 moves to the bottom, right corner of the screen.

   [Screenshot.  No clue why it's included.]
      Figure 6

 Point Values Table
   Flagships   60 Points
   Hornets     50 Points
   Emissaries  40 Points
   Drones      30 Points

 Destroying a Flagship in flight earns you bonus points as follows:
   Flagship with no Escorts                150 Points
   Flagship with one Escort                200 Points
   Flagship with two Escorts               300 Points
   Destroy Both Escorts then the Flagship  800 Points

 In one-player games your score is displayed at the top, center of the
 screen.  The highest score is displayed at the bottom, left corner of
 the screen, and remains on the screen until the power on the 5200
 console is turned off.

 As your skill improves and you survive beyond wave 10, the Galaxian
 fleet may surprise you with some special screen graphics.  We won't
 tell you what to expect, just that GALAXIAN is full of surprises!

 6. SKILL LEVELS

 The GALAXIAN game includes 10 skill levels, 0 through 9, and one easy
 version for beginners.

 The easy version allows you to destroy the Galaxian fleet without
 them firing back at you.  The only way you can lose a turn in this
 version is by head-on collision with a Galaxian.

 Games 0 through 9 offer varying degrees of challenge; Game 0 is
 relatively easy and Game 9 is very difficult.  The Galaxian fleet
 fires at you throughout these games.  In the harder games they fire
 faster with more missiles.  In some games they fire in a noticeable
 pattern, while in others they fire randomly.

 All GALAXIAN games may be played by one or two players, each taking
 turns until their command ship is destroyed.  In the case of a
 two-player game using two 5200 controllers, the player using jack 1
 is player 1.  In two-player games with one 5200 controller or a
 TRAK-BALL, simply pass the controller between turns.

 7. GAME STRATEGY

 * In Games 0 through 9, when a Flagship is destroyed in flight, the
   rest of the fleet stops firing for a few seconds of mourning.
   This is your big chance to get the escorts and any other warriors
   that you can.  This may be the only time that they aren't firing
   at you.

 * It's a good idea to play a few games at the easy (the * button)
   level when you're just learning to play GALAXIAN.  This will help
   you develop skill and strategy.

 * Always have a strategical escape planned to avoid patterns of
   missile attacks.  Think fast and scan the screen for methods of
   outsmarting the Galaxian fleet.

 * Some members of the Galaxian fleet are incredibly difficult to
   destroy, but with practice you'll even outsmart them!

 END

 Typed by Jay Tilton (tiltonj@erols.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
