GorfGorf



GORF

For the Atari(R) 5200(TM)
For one or two players.

GAME PLAY
INSTRUCTIONS

(C)MCMLXXXIII CBS Toys, A Division of CBS Inc.
* GORF is a trademark of Bally Midway Mfg. Co.
(C)1981,1983 Bally Midway Mfg. Co. All Rights Reserved
Atari(R) and 5200(TM) are trademarks of Atari, Inc.

CBS Electronics

SETTING UP YOUR VIDEO CONSOLE

1. Hook up your video game system, following manufacturer's instructions.

2. With the power OFF< plug in the video game cartridge.

3. Turn power ON.  If no image appears, check the connection of your game
   system to the TV, then repeat steps 1-3.

4. Plug a 5200(TM) Controller firmly into controller jack 1.  This is a
   one or two-player game using the same controller.

5. Keypad overlays are provided for your convenience.  If you desire, slip
   an overlay onto the keypad of your controller.

6. Press the keypad square marked 1-2 Players (the # key) to select either
   the one-player or two-player version.

7. Players start with Mission #1 at the Cadet level.  To begin at a higher
   level, press the keypad square marked Rank Level (the * key) until the
   desired level appears on the screen.

8. To start the game, press the START key or one of the two bottom trigger
   buttons on the sides of the controller.  The upper buttons have no 
   functions in the game.  To pause the game at any point, press the PAUSE
   key.  To resume the game, press this key again.  Pressing the START key
   again at any time will immediately return the game to the first mission.
   Pressing the RESET key will cause the title screen to reappear.

   STRATEGY HINTS are located on the back of this manual.

Note: Never remove your video game cartridge from the console unless the
power is turned OFF.

MESSAGE FROM INTERSTELLAR SPACE FORCE COMMAND

Space Cadet:

By the time you read this communique, we of the interstellar Space Force
command will have been destroyed.  The evil Gorfian Empire has launched an
all-out attack.  You are Earth's last hope!  Your assignment is to repel
the invasion and launch a counterattack.  You will engage various hostile
spacecraft as you journey toward a dramatic confrontation with the enemy
Flag Ship!  You will be rewarded for your success with promotions in rank
and praise from a grateful planet.  But you must act quickly, Space Cadet!
Brief yourself on the Gorfian Robot Armada and then attack before it's...
TOO LATE!

MESSAGE ENDED

OBJECT OF THE GAME

The object of GORF is to accumulate points by destroying the various types
of enemy spacecraft you will encounter as you attempt to complete a variety
of space missions.

INTERSTELLAR SPACE FIGHTERS

You begin each game with a fleet of five Fighters.  Only one Fighter at a
time may fire upon the enemy.  The time may fire upon the enemy.  The number
of Fighters remaining in your fleet is indicated throughout the game at the
top of the screen.
   Use the joystick to maneuver your Fighter back and forth, and up and down.
To fire your laser, press one of the two button trigger buttons on the sides
of your controller.  You have an unlimited supply of ammunition.

Note: Firing a shot causes a previously discharged bullet to disintegrate if
it hasn't yet made contact.

You will be awarded one extra fighter plus a promotion of Rank every time
you make it through the series of four space missions.

MISSION 1 - ASTRO BATTLES

Before taking off into space, you must first defend the Earth from the horde
of advancing Gorfian Droids.  These invaders decscend in column formation and
drop dangerous anti-matter bombs.  Bonus points are scored for hitting the
bouncing Gorf and Command Ship that randomly pass overhead.  When the entire
attack matrix is destroyed you will proceed on to your next mission.  Should
any of the invaders bust through your defense shield and reach the Earth's
surface before you've destroyed them, this mission will be terminated.

MISSION 2 - LASER ATTACK

This orbital zone is the Gorfian Empire's first line of defense against your
counterattack.  Destroy the anti-particle Laser Ships while avoiding their
deadly beams.  Each Laser Ship is protected by three Kamikaze Invaders and a
Flying Gorf.  They'll continuously try to ram into you as you attempt to
blast them all.
   Points are scored for all enemies shot and destroyed.  No points are scored
for Kamikaze Invaders blown up in a suicide-crash.  When all attack ships are
destroyed, you will move on to your next battle.

MISSION 3 - SPACE WARP

You are getting closer to the enemy Flag Ship!  Sensing your presence, it
generates an eerie space web which releases Gorfian Attackers and Flying Gorfs
firing subquark torpedoes.  These aliens are released one at a time and fly in
a spiral pattern.  When you succeed in getting past this level, you'll be
ready for your next and most challenging mission.

MISSION 4 - FLAG SHIP

To destroy the Gorfian Flag Ship and earn the right to work toward your next
promotion, you must score a direct hit in the Flag Ship's internal power
reactor vent.  In order to get a clear shot at this difficult target, you must
first blast a hole in the Flag Ship's heavy force field arc, while avoiding the
heat-seeking missiles being launched in your direction.  The debris that falls
from the Flag Ship following a shot to its outer hull is radioactive, but may
be fired upon for extra points.  Following a successful hit, a violent
neutronium explosion will appear in dazzling color as the Flag Ship
disintegrates.  You are now a Space Captain and will repeat the sequence of
missions fighting against progressively faster and nastier robots of the
Gorfian Empire!

END OF GAME

The game ends when all your Interstellar Space Fighters have been destroyed by
the robot warriors of the Gorfian Empire.

TWO-PLAYER VERSION

Two players may compete in GORF, alternating turns.  Both players must use the
same controller.  Since only one player can play at a time, sharing should not
pose a problem.  Just be prepared to pass the controller to the other player
when your turn has ended.  The screen will notify each player as to whose turn
it is.

FIELD PROMOTION SCHEDULE

Rank			Missions
--------------------------------
Space Cadet		1 to 4
Space Captain		5 to 8
Space Colonel		9 to 12
Space General		13 to 16
Space Warrior		17 to 20
Space Avenger		21 and up

SCORING

Your score is displayed at the top of the screen throughout the game.

Mission			Object		Point Value
-----------------------------------------------------------
Astro Battles		Gorfian Droids		50 points
			Bouncing
			Gorf and
			Command Ship		250 points
-----------------------------------------------------------
Laser Attack		Kamikaze
			Invaders and
			Flying Gorfs		100 points
			Laser Ships		300 points
-----------------------------------------------------------
Space Warp		Gorfian Attackers
			and Flying Gorfs	100 points
-----------------------------------------------------------
Flag Ship		Hitting Flag Ship	20 points
			Debris and Flying
			Gorfs*			150 points
			Destroying Flag		1000 points
			Ship
-----------------------------------------------------------
* Flying Gorfs appear with the Flag Ship starting at the
level of Captain.

CBS Electronics
VIDEO GAME CARTRIDGE LIMITED NINETY DAY WARRANTY

CBS Inc. ("CBS") warrants to the original consumer
purchaser of this CBS Electronics cartridge for a period
of ninety days from the date of purchase that it is free
from any defects in materials or workmanship.  If any such
defect is discovered within the warranty period, CBS will
repair or replace the cartridge, at its option, free of
charge on receipt of the cartridge with proof of date of
purchase, postage paid, at:
CBS Electronics, 601 Doremus Avenue
Newark, NJ 07105

In the event that your cartridge is replaced, the replacement
will be continued on the original warranty for the balance of
its term or for 30 days, whichever is longer.

This warranty is limited to the electronic circuitry and
mechanical parts originally provided by CBS and is not
applicable to normal wear and tear.  This warranty shall not
apply to defects arising from abuse, unreasonable use,
mistreatment or neglect.

ANY APPLICABLE IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, ARE HEREBY LIMITED TO NINETY
DAYS FROM THE DATE OF PURCAHSE.  CONSEQUENTIAL BREACH OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM A BREACH OF ANY APPLICABLE
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARE HEREBY EXCLUDED.

Some states do not allow limitations on how long an implied
warranty lasts or do not allow the exclusion or limitations
of incidental or consequential damages, so the above limitations
or exclusions may not apply to you.

This warranty gives you specific legal rights and you may also
have other rights which vary from state to state.

STRATEGY HINTS

1. Astro Battles - Start picking off the invaders from the edges.
By destroying entire columns, the rate of descent is reduced.

2. Laser Attack.  Kamikazes and Flying Gorfs should be destroyed
at maximum possible range, especially when they power dive.

3. Space Warp.  Attackers are easiest to destroy when they first
emerge.  They are moving slower and the spiral movements is
lighter.

4. Flag Ship.  Create large holes in the force field arc before
attempting to hit the reactor.  You'll have a better line of
fire.

CBS Toys, A Division of CBS Inc., Newark, NJ 07105
2L-2614-0000




This document obtained from the History of Home Video Games Homepage, ©1997-1998 
by Greg Chance
