
 GREMLINS

 BY ATARI

 ========

 THE PLOT

   Rand Peltzer discovers the Mogwai in a Hong Kong trinket shop.
 Rand is enchanted by the fluffy little creature and insists on
 buying it.  "With Mogwai comes much responsibility," warns the
 wise old owner of the shop.  Three absolute rules for the care
 and feeding of Mogwai are:
 1. Keep them away from water.  Don't ever get them wet.  Water
 makes them multiply.
 2. Keep them out of light.  They hate bright light.  It will kill
 them.
 3. But the most important thing, the thing you must never forget,
 is that no matter how much they cry, no matter how much they beg,
 never, never feed them after midnight.  If you do, they'll hatch
 into Gremlins!
   Rand presents the Mogwai to his son Billy for Christmas.  Billy
 names his adorable pet "Gizmo"--in honor of his dad's business,
 which is inventing gadgets and gizmos.  When Billy's friend
 accidentally spills water on Gizmo, five Mogwai spring out of the
 original one!
   Billy cages the Mogwai in his living room, but they break out
 for a midnight snack.  As the game opens things look really
 grim--or is that grem?

 THE CAST

 Introducing
 Mogwai

 Starring
 Billy Peltzer

 With thousands of Gremlins cast as villains

 BEHIND THE SCENES

   Insert the GREMLINS cartridge into your ATARI 5200 SuperSystem
 as explained in your owner's guide and turn on the console.
   Plug a controller into Jack 1 for a one-player game, and
 another into Jack 2 for a two-player game.  The player using jack
 1 controls game selection and starts the game.
   Press * to choose a one-player, two-player, or demo game.
   You can start playing at a higher game level if you wish.
 Press # to cycle through the twelve difficulty levels.  Night 1
 is easiest and Night 23 hardest.
   Press START to begin playing.
   Press PAUSE to stop and restart the action.
   Press PAUSE, then RESET during game play to return to the game
 options display.
   Press PAUSE, then START to restart the game at the current game
 options.
   Use your joystick to move Billy on the screen.  Billy moves up,
 down, right, and left in the same direction you move the
 joystick.  To automatically pick up a Mogwai, move Billy over to
 the pet until he makes contact with it.  To put the Mogwai in its
 pen, stand next to the pen.  Press either bottom fire button to
 swing Billy's sword.  Press either top fire button to activate a
 flash cube.

 ON THE SET

 Oh no!  It's after midnight.  The Mogwai and Gremlins are running
 wild in Billy's living room.  Help Billy return the Mogwai to
 their cage and destroy all Gremlins by slashing them with his
 sword before sunrise at six a.m.
   You have between thirty seconds and six minutes to complete
 your task.  A clock located at bottom screen center counts from
 starting time up to six a.m.  The easier nights are shorter.
 When you make it through one night, you go on to a harder night.
 Two ways to make it through a night:
 1. Return all Mogwai to their pens and eliminate all Gremlins.
 2. Survive until six a.m.
   You start out with three lives.  Each time a Gremlin touches
 you, you lose a life.  Remaining lives are displayed next to your
 score at the top of the screen.  You win a bonus life every
 10,000 points.  The maximum lives displayed at once are six;
 extra lives won after that are held in reserve.

 SPECIAL PROPS

 Mogwai Pen
   Located at upper screen right, the Mogwai pen is the best place
 to put the mischievous little Mogwai.  You can only carry one
 Mogwai at a time in addition to Gizmo, the original Mogwai that
 Billy carries in a backpack throughout the game.  When you're
 carrying a Mogwai, a Mogwai head appears at top center of the
 screen.  Stand beside the pen to put the Mogwai into it.
 Gremlins let Mogwai out of the pen, so keep them away from it!

 Sword
   Swing your sword as soon as you're within range of a Gremlin.
 The sword swings in the direction you're moving.  While it
 eliminates Gremlins on contact, it swings too high to hurt
 Mogwai.

 Flash Cubes
   Mogwai and Gremlins are very sensitive to light.  You can stun
 them for a second by activating a flash cube.  You start out with
 three flash cubes and win a new one with each new life.  Flash
 cube indicators appear as "+"s at lower screen left for Player
 One and at lower screen right for Player Two.

 Television
   Located at upper screen left, the TV turns on when Billy,
 Mogwai or Gremlins touch it.  (But they can't turn it off.)  When
 it's on all the Gremlins and Mogwai within range stand still and
 watch it.

 Peltzer Popcorn Popper
   Invented by Billy's dad, the Peltzer Popcorn Popper stands at
 lower room right.  It still has a few kinks in it, though.  For
 one thing, it spews popcorn all over the place!  For another,
 it's so easy to turn the thing on that all the Mogwai and
 Gremlins need do is walk up to the machine and it starts popping.
  The Mogwai eat the popcorn for their night snack and promptly
 turn into pupas, which shortly hatch into Gremlins.  You can make
 the pupas disappear by touching them--but it's risky since they
 hatch so quickly.  Pick up popped corn, and turn off the popper
 by walking up to it.

 Refrigerator
   The refrigerator stands at the far left side of the room.
 Gremlins get into the 'fridge as often as possible:
   They fling food out for the Mogwai to eat, which, as you
 already know, results in disaster!  Pick up food by walking over
 it.
   Another Peltzer invention-in-progress is the automatic ice cube
 maker in the freezer section of the 'fridge.  About the only
 thing the ice cube maker does automatically is spit ice cubes at
 random onto the living room floor.  The ice cubes melt within a
 few seconds, forming a puddle that the Gremlins and Mogwai love
 to play in.  And remember, when the creatures touch water, they
 multiply!

 NIGHT TYPES

   You'll encounter three different types of night.  There's the
 mixed night that includes Mogwai, Gremlins, popcorn, and water.
 There's the Gremlin-only night that features lots of water but no
 Mogwai or food.  And there's the Mogwai-only night in which there
 are lots of barriers, food and no water, and a short time to get
 the Mogwai into the pen.

 THE SCORE

   Player One's score appears at the top left of the screen and
 Player Two's score is displayed at top right.

 Eliminating Gremlins................................ 100

 Touching pupa....................................... 100

 Picking up food.....................................   7

 Mogwai in pen at end of night ......100 plus 50 for each
 additional Mogwai

 Bonus for time remaining
 when all Mogwai are in pen
 and all Gremlins are gone ........9 (per minute remaining)

 IMPROVISATIONAL TIPS

 *  Use the room dividers to your advantage.  You can swing your
 sword over a vertical room divider to get the Gremlins on the
 other side, even as the divider shields you from your enemy.

 * To keep them from throwing out food, eliminate Gremlins
 standing near the refrigerator as soon as possible.

 * If you think you can control them, let the Mogwai multiply.
 This gives you the potential for more points at the end of the
 night.  But don't forget--if they eat food, they'll turn into
 Gremlins.

 * Use the flashcubes judiciously.  For example, if you're
 surrounded by Gremlins, activate a flashcube to stun them, and
 then slash your way out.  You can walk right through a stunned
 Gremlin, but if it wakes up, you'll be sorry!

 * You can turn on the TV and sneak up on the Mogwai and Gremlins
 while they're watching TV.

 * Time is worth more than food, so don't go out of your way to
 pick up pieces of food.

 ATARI
 Printed in Taiwan
 (c)1986 Atari, Corp.
 All rights reserved

 No reproduction of this document or any portion of its contents
 is allowed without specific written permission of Atari, Corp.
 Sunnyvale CA 94086

 END

 Typed by Jay Tilton (tiltonj@erols.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
