
 JAMES BOND 007

 BY PARKER BROTHERS

 FOR ATARI 5200 GAME SYSTEM

 SETTING THE CONSOLE CONTROLS
 1. Place the cartridge firmly into the cartridge slot.
 2. Plug one or two hand-held controllers into controller jacks
    labeled "1" and "2".  Use the controller in the "1" jack for a
    one-player game.
 3. Press the ON/OFF switch to ON.
 4. Press the # button to select a difficulty level; either NOVICE
    or AGENT.
 5. Press the * button to select the number of players; either 1
    or 2
 6. Press the START button to begin.

 To the tune of the James Bond theme, you'll see the title of the
 adventure as well as "GOOD LUCK, MR. BOND."  "Agent 1" (or 2) refers
 to the first (or second player).  The number of avaliable vehicles
 appears to the right.  As Mr. Bond steps into the vehicle, he gices
 a brief demonstration of its capabilities, then speeds off to face
 the first adventure.

 At any time during the game, you may press either START or RESET to
 begin again.

 THE HAND HELD CONTROLLERS
 The joystick on the hand-held controller maneuvers Bond's specially
 designed multi-purpose craft.  The craft moves forward with a right
 motion and slightly back with a left motion.  An up or down motion
 causes the craft to jump or dive.  In either case, gravity or
 buoyancy returns the craft to a water or land surface line.

 THE PAUSE BUTTON
 At any time during the game, you may freeze the action.  To do so,
 simply press PAUSE.  To continue the action, press PAUSE again.

 YOUR ITINERARY, MR. BOND
 In this game, you are Bond.  James Bond, 007, the world's most famous
 secret agent.  Renowned for your cool and confidence (not to mention
 your biting wit), you've been selected by the British Secret Service
 for four clandestine, utterly critical, and nearly impossible
 missions.

 These will be accomplished at the controls of a specially designed
 multi-purpose craft that boasts extraordinary capabilities.  It has
 the properties of a car, a plane, and a submarine.  And it's
 equipped with the latest weaponry.  We think you'll find it more
 than adequate.

 In brief, Mr. Bond, this is what lies ahead.  First stop, Las Vegas
 in Diamonds Are Forever.  No casinos, here.  Rather, you've got to
 cross the desert in the dead of night.  A very romantic place,
 indeed, when you're not being shot at.

 We know you like a change of scenery, Bond, so the next stop is
 Sardinia in The Spy Who Loved Me.  Stromberg's underwater laboratory
 is your destination in this one.  We're confident you'll know just
 what to do when you reach it.

 In Moonraker, you'll recognise your old nemesis Hugo Drax and his
 poison satellites.  From your position on the lake, you must stop the
 satellites from ever reaching Earth.

 We thought we'd top off the assignment with For Your Eyes Only.  This
 one will take you below sea level to a sunken World War II fishing
 trawler.  Could be the most hazardous mission of all.  We're only
 thinging of you, Bond.  We know your fondness for the Greek islands.

 Oh, about the details, read on.  We want you prepared for the
 assault . . . armed frogmen, missiles, mines and the like.  Not to
 worry.  Good luck, Bond.  And Bon Voyage!

 DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER
 Mission: Land on Seraffino's Oil Rig and Save Tiffany Case

 There's lots of glitter in this adventure.  But all that glitters is
 not fold . . . it's diamonds and Seraffino's got them!  Black market
 jewelry scheme, you're thinking?  Wrong.  When attached to a
 communications satellite, the stolen rocks can harness solar energy,
 create a laser blast, and destroy targets on the Earth's surface.

 Therefore, Bond, you simply must get Seraffino.  You'll find him on
 an oil rig off the Pacific coast.  There, he controls the diamond
 satellites' guidance system.

 By the way, Bond, Seraffino's holding your . . . uh . . . assistant,
 Tiffany Case.  We believe she's desperately in need of rescue.

 The Desert
   First, you must travel rugged desert terrain in the dead of night.
   The desert is filled with treacherous craters that you must jump
   over - or else crash!

   As satellites pass overhead, they'll drop lasers.  Lasers can
   destroy you on impact as well as create craters in your path.  Your
   driving skills will be of the utmost importance in surviving the
   lasers since it's impossible to destroy the satellites.

   Craters occasionally fill with water.  You may glide over the water
   as long as you jump back onto the land.

 The Diamonds
   Giant diamonds hang in the night sky.  Hit one with your fixed
   angle shot to light you way (and score points).  And remember that
   only by the light of a diamond will you be able to see Seraffino's
   oil rig once you reach the ocean.

 The Ocean
   When you reach the ocean, continue to light the sky by hitting
   diamonds.  Remember, you're looking for the oil rig.  Also, lobbing
   flare bombs onto the ocean floor enables you to see Seraffino's
   frogmen and get them before they get you.  (Watch out for fire from
   behind.)  The satellites are still active, so beware.

 The Oil Rig
   Seraffino's oil rig will be silhouetted against the sky when you
   hit a diamond.  When it appears, move your craft just to the left
   of the rig, straight up over the top of the derrick, then down to
   land on the helipad.  When this happends, you've gotten Seraffino
   and saved Tiffany Case!

 Important:
   If after having sighted the oil rig you're unable to hit a diamond-
   or if you notice that your shot disappears right after firing, this
   means you're about to hit the rig.  Dive under it quickly and try
   again to accomplish the mission on the next oil rig.

 Completing of this mission brings you the next with your remaining
 crafts.

 THE SPY WHO LOVED ME
 Mission:  Destroy Stromberg's Undersea Laboratory

 Shipping magnate Karl Stromberg uses huge oil tankers to swallow
 nuclear submarines right out of the water.  It just so happens he's
 captured a British sub, not to mention you fellow agent, Anya
 Amasova.  Stromberg must be stopped for good.  You'll find him in
 his undersea laboratory off the coast of Sardinia.

 Missiles
   Stromberg has rigged the ocean floor with deadly missiles that rise
   into the air, turn into mushroom mines, and fall back down again.
   Avoid them, shoot them down, or bomb them out at the base.

 The Oil Tankers
   When you see one of Stromberg's oil tankers, dive under it.  From
   the tanker, Stromberg's trigger-happy chopper pilots will track
   you until their fuel runs out.  When this happens, they head back
   to the tanker.  By the way, Bond, the helicopter is indestructible.

 The Undersea Laboratory
   When you see Stromberg's laboratory at the bottom of the screen,
   lob a flare bomb onto it.  The explosion will release a capsule
   that carries Anya Amasova.  Swoop down and touch the capsule and
   your mission is accomplished.  Stromberg is destroyed and Anya is
   saved.

 Completion if this mission brings you he next with your remaining
 crafts.

 MOONRAKER
 Mission: Destroy Three Spinning Satellites

 Billionaire industrialist Hudo Drax has concocted the ultimate scheme
 in international espionage:  the depopulation of the Earth in order
 to recolonize it with his super-race.  The destruction will occur
 from Drax's poison satellites that rotate through space.  As they
 spin through the night, you must attack them from your craft's
 position on, above, or beneath the lake's surface.  A deceptively
 difficult task.

 Space Shuttles
   Another of Drax's brilliant but dastardly inventions is the
   Moonraker fleet of space shuttles.  Launched from the ocean floor,
   they will destroy you on impact.  And remember, when a space
   shuttle rises into orbit at the top of the screen, it explodes.
   If you're above water when it does, you'll explode too.  How to
   handle a space shuttle?  Blow it out at the launch pad, dodge it
   and submerge before it explodes or shoot it down.

 Mini-Subs
   Drax simply loves submarines and he has sent a fleet of them to
   patrol the depths.  Mini-subs release deadly mines that float to
   the surface.  Avoid them or destroy them or they'll destroy you.
   And get those bothersome subs if you can, too.

 Just one more thing, Bond.  Make sure you clear the terrain and watch
 that uncomfortably shallow water.

 Completion of this mission brings you the next with your remaining
 crafts.

 FOR YOUR EYES ONLY
 Mission:  Retrieve Radio Equipment from a Sunken Fishing Trawler

 A British surveillace ship has been sunk off the Greek mainland by a
 WWII mine.  Somewhere amid the wreckage lies a top secret ultralow
 frequency transmitter that launches ballistic missiles on command.
 You must find it before it falls into the hands of enemy agent
 Gonzalez.

 Terrain
   First, the shoreline requires expert piloting to avert the mountain
   peaks that rise dangerously from the ocean floor.

 Underwater Enemies
   Only by the light of flare bombs can you see the enemies that lurk
   in the darkened waters.  These include armed frogmen and the same
   mine-releasing minisubs that Drax employs.  You've escaped them
   before, you can do it again!

 Helicopters
   Occasionally, a helicopter comes onto the scene.  Sorry, old boy,
   it's not one of ours.  The chopper's tracking system makes it a
   deadeye shot.  And the radius around the gunfire explosion is a
   killer.  Consider yourself warned.

 The Sunken Fishing Trawler
   When you see the sunken trawler, maneuver your craft onto the
   circular radio antenna in the middle of the deck.  Do so, and
   you've retrieved the radio equipment.  But if you hit any other
   part of the trawler, you're sunk!

 Completion of this mission ends the game.

 END OF GAME
 The game ends when you complete the last mission or when you lose
 the last craft.  In either case, you'll see the final animated scene
 along with your final score.  The following screen give you your
 AGENT RATING.

 To play again, simply press the RESET button, then the START button.

 AGENT RATING
 The British Secret Service rates each of its agents on his or her
 performance at the end of each game.  Our rating method is computer-
 analyzed and highly confidential.  (Enemy agents must never learn our
 training secrets.)  The highest rating in Novice is 005, The highest
 rating in AGENT is 007, of course!

 TWO-PLAYER GAMES
 In a two-player game, players alternate as Bond.  The LEFT player
 goes first.  A player's score is displayed at the end of a turn.
 When one player loses all his or her crafts, he or she is out of the
 game.  The opponent may continue to play with his or her remaining
 crafts.

 SCORING
 Your score is displayed after the loss of each craft.  Your final
 score appears at the end of the game.

 Targets                                       Points
 Diamond                                           50
 Frogman                                          200
 Ocean floor missile                              100
 Mushroom mine                                    100
 Space shuttle                                    200
 Poison satellite                                 500
 Mini-sub                                         200
 Mini-sub mine                                    100
 Mission accomplished                           5,000
 Each remaining craft at the end of the game    3,000

 END

 Typed by Grant LeTourneau (snapsnar@tezcat.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
