
 JOUST

 BY ATARI

 #CX5240 Released for the Atari 5200 SuperSystem (C)1983

 An Exciting Medieval Battle from the arcade classic...Joust

 Page 1)

 Insert your 5200 game cartridge so the label faces you and reads
 right-side-up.  Be sure the cartridge is firmly seated in the center
 slot of the console, but do not force it in.  Then press the POWER
 switch.  See your owner's manual for further details.

 KNIGHTS ON BIRDBACK!

 How on Earth did you fall into this alien world?  Look around you--
 the sky is full of knights astride enormous armored buzzards.  These
 characters look mean, and the buzzards they ride don't look very
 friendly either!

 To defend yourself, and to score points, you must unseat each of your
 opponents in a joust.  The winner of a joust is the rider whose mount
 is highest at point of contact.  If the mounts are of equal height,
 the joust is a draw.

 The Buzzard Riders:

 Your opponents are the Buzzard Riders.  There are three types,
 each more dangerous than the last:  the Bounders (wearing red), the
 Hunters (wearing grey), and the Shadow Lords (wearing blue).

 Page 2)

 When you unseat a Buzzard Rider, in a joust, his mount turns into
 an egg.  If you or your mount grabs the egg, you'll score points and
 the egg will disappear. (For even more points, try to catch the egg
 before it hits the ground).  It will eventually hatch into an even
 more dangerous opponent.

 You and the Buzzard Riders materialize on grey regeneration pads at
 the tops of the ledges.  Until a bird and rider completely
 materialize, they're protected from attack.  Once moved, however,
 they become fair game for a joust.

 The Lava Troll and the Pterodactyl

 In the fire pits of the lowest ledge lives the Lava Troll.  After
 the second wave of game play, the fire pits are uncovered and any
 jouster who flies close to the pits may be captured by the Troll,
 but as the game progresses the Troll's grip become stronger.

 At certain times during the game, a deadly pterodactyl appears.
 Pterodactyls will try to eat you, but if you have the skill to hit
 one directly on the beak, you'll destroy it and earn bonus points.

 Page 3)

 SPECIAL WAVES

 When all of the Buzzard Riders have been unseated, a new wave of
 game play begins.  The longer you play, the harder the game
 becomes; you'll have more opponents to fight, and you'll need more
 skill to successfully joust them.  Certain waves allow you to earn
 special bonus points.  The waves are:

 Survival Wave (one player) or Team Wave (two player)--In the
 one-player version, you are awarded 3000 points if your player
 stays alive through the entire wave.  In the two-player mode
 version, both players are awarded 3000 points if neither player
 unseats the other.

 Gladiator Wave (two player)--the first player to unseat the other
 is awarded 3000 points.

 Egg Wave--All the buzzard Riders begin this wave as eggs.  Collect
 the eggs quickly before they hatch.

 Pterodactyl Wave--This wave starts with the pterodactyl on the
 screen.

 Each player's current score and number of lives are shown at the
 bottom of the screen.  You start the game with five lives and earn
 an additional life every 20,000 points.

 Page 4)

 SCORING

 Feat                                   Points
 Unseating a Buzzard Rider
   Bounder                               500
   Hunter                                700
   Shadow Lord                          1500

 Collecting Eggs
   1st Egg                               250
   2nd Egg                               500
   3rd Egg                               750
   4th Egg, and every egg thereafter    1000

 Catching an egg in midair        Bonus  500
 Losing a life                            50
 Unseating another player (two-player)  1000
 Surviving a Survival Wave              3000
 Cooperating in a Team Wave             3000
 Unseating another player in the Gladiator level  3000
 Destroying a pterodactyl               1000

 Page 5)

 USING THE CONTROLLERS

 Plug one 5200 controller firmly into jack 1 for one-player games;
 plug a second controller into jack 2 for two-player games.  The
 player using jack 1 controls game selection and starts the game.

 Use your joystick to move your bird left or right.  Use the lower
 fire buttons to make your bird flap its wings.  To make your bird
 fly, press any lower fire button repeatedly, or hold in the button.

 CONTROL KEYS

 Press START to begin the game.
 Press PAUSE to freeze the action;
 press PAUSE again to resume game play.
 Press PAUSE then RESET to return to
 the game option screen.

 Press the * key to choose a skill level.
 Press the # key to select a one- or two- player game.

 Page 6)

 GAME OPTIONS

 There are four options in JOUST: NOVICE, SKILLED, ADVANCED, and
 EXPERT levels.  In the novice level, the pterodactyl and the lava
 troll do not appear, and the eggs do not hatch into Buzzard Riders.
 In the SKILLED, ADVANCED, and EXPERT levels, game play becomes
 increasingly difficult: The number of opponents increases, the Lava
 Troll's grip becomes stronger, and the pterodactyl appears more
 often.

 HELPFUL HINTS

 --Play the NOVICE version first to learn how to control the bird.
 Try keeping your flight even and steady, rather than bouncing
 off of ledges.

 --Stay away from the sides of the jousting arena, since a Buzzard
 Rider or Pterodactyl could appear unexpectedly.

 --Collect eggs quickly after they reach the ground.  If you wait too
 long, they'll hatch into new Buzzard Riders.

 --Clear your screen of opponents as quickly as possible.  The
 pterodactyl will appear if you wait too long.

 --Stay as high as possible on the screen, then drop down on your
 opponents.

 Atari welcomes your comments.  Please address all correspondence
 to: Atari, INC. , Customer Relations, 1312 Crossman Avenue,
 Sunnyvale, CA 94086

 (c) Atari 1983 Model CX5240 All Rights Reserved

 END

 Typed by Dan Reinholtz (sammy97@niu.edu)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
