
 JUNGLE HUNT

 BY ATARI

 Insert your 5200 game cartridge so the label faces you and reads
 right-side-up.  Be sure the cartridge is firmly seated in the center
 of the console, but do not force it.  Then press the POWER switch
 on. See your owners manual for further details.

 GAME PLAY

 A leisurely Jungle safari turned into fiasco when your lady friend
 was kidnapped by two cannibals.  They'll turn her into soup if you
 don't rescue her quickly!

 To rescue your friend, you'll need to make your way past four
 obstacles: a jungle where you'll jump from rope to rope, a river
 filled with open-jawed crocodiles, a landslide of boulders, and a
 cannibal campsite where your friend hangs suspended over a steaming
 pot of soup.  use your Joystick to swim through the river and to run
 on dry land; use the red fire buttons to jump and to use your knife
 against the crocodiles (see USING THE CONTROLLERS for details).

 You'll score points as you overcome obstacles, and you'll also score
 bonus points for rescuing your friend.

 You're given three lives at the start of the game.  At 10,000 points
 you are given one extra life - if you survive that long.

 When you begin the gane you have 500 seconds to complete your rescue
 mission.  A timer counts down the seconds as you play.  The sooner
 you rescue your friend, the more bonus points you'll earn - so don't
 dawdle.

 The obstacles you'll face are:

 DEADLY JUNGLE

 To cross the jungle, use your top fire buttons to swing from rope to
 rope.  At higher levels of game play, monkeys appear on some of the
 ropes.  Avoid the monkey by jumping above or below them.  If you
 touch one, you'll be pushed off the rope.

 REPTILE RIVER

 The river is filled with schools of man-eating crocodiles.  To
 survive you'll have to either swim out of their way or stab them with
 your knife.  Crocodiles swimming near the bottom are worth more
 points than those swimming near the surface.  You can stab a
 crocodile if its jaws are partially open, but beware of any crocodile
 with its mouth fully open - your knife will be useless against it.

 While swimming underwater you'll need to keep an eye on your air
 meter.  If you're still underwater when the meter runs out, you'll
 lose a life.

 Watch out for the Mysterious Murk that bubbles up from the riverbed.
 If the Murk touches you, you'll float helplessly to the surface and
 will be defenseless against the crocodiles.  The effects of the Murk
 last only for a short period - if a crocodile doesn't get you while
 you're under its influence, you'll recover and can continue swimming.

 BOULDER FIELD

 After you cross the river you'll encounter a mountain of bouncing
 boulders.

 Avoid the smaller boulders by jumping over or ducking beneath them.
 Avoid the larger boulders by jumping over, running beneath, or
 ducking beneath them.

 CANNIBAL CAMP

 Jump over the two dancing cannibals to reach your friend - she's
 hanging just above the a cauldron of soup.  After you pass the
 cannibals you must jump onto the rope that is holding your friend.
 Be careful!  If you don't time your jump correctly, you'll fall into
 the pot.

 AFTER THE RESCUE

 After a touching reunion with your friend, you'' return to the Deadly
 Jungle for the next level of game play.  The game becomes
 increasingly difficult as you move on to higher levels.  You can
 continue playing until you run out of players, or until the timer
 runs out.

 USING THE CONTROLLERS

 Plug one 5200 controller firmly into jack 1 for one-player games;
 plug a second controller into jack 2 for two player-games.  The
 player using jack 1 controls the game selection and starts the game.

 Use the fire buttons to jump over boulders and onto ropes, or to use
 your knife in Reptile River.  A bottom fire button will repeat any
 function as long as it remains pressed; a top fire button will
 perform a function only once each time the buttoon is pressed.

 Use your contoller to maneuver through these sections of the jungle:

 DEADLY RIVER - Use a top fire button to jump from rope to rope.

 REPTILE RIVER - Use your joystick to move in any direction in the
 river.  Use any red fire button to stab crocodiles.

 BOULDER FIELD - Use your joystick to run right or left.  To duck
 beneath a boulder, simply pull back on the joystick.  Jump over
 boulders by pressing any red fire button - jump even higher by
 pushing your joystick forward before you jump.

 CANNIBAL CAMP - Use your joystick to move right and left.  Use any
 red fire button to jump over cannibals, and to leap onto the rope
 that is holding your friend.

 CONTROL KEYS

 Press START to begin the game.  press PAUSE to freeze the action and
 the press START to unfreeze the action.  Press PAUSE and then RESET
 to return to the option screen during gameplay.

 GAME OPTIONS

 There are three skill levels in JUNGLE HUNT: beginner, medium and
 advanced.  In the beginner skill level you're given six lives at the
 start of the game; on the meadium and advanced skill levels you're
 given three lives. the advanced skill level also starts with a more
 difficult level of gameplay than the medium or beginner skill levels.

 Press the # key to choose the appropriate skill level.  To see a
 demonstration of game play, press the 1 on your keypad.

 Press PAUSE and the RESET to return to the options screen during game
 play, in order to select a new game level.

 Press the * key to select a one-player or two-player game.  When
 you've selected the appropriate game options, press START to begin
 the game.

 SCORING

  Jumping to a rope              100 points
  Stabbing a crocodile           100 points (closed jaws)
  (upper river)                  200 points (open jaws)
  Stabbing a crocodile           200 points (closed jaws)
  (lower river)                  300 points (open jaws)
  Running under a boulder         50 points
  Ducking under a boulder        100 points
  Jumping over a boulder         200 points
  Jumping over a cannibal        200 points

 BONUSES

 Bonus life                                    at 10,000 points
 Rescuing your friend                          3x timer value
 Each time you exit a section of the jungle    500 points

 STRATEGY

 - The sooner you rescue your friend the more bonus points you'll
   receive.  The deadly Jungle can be esecially time-consuming, so
   practice jumping from rope to rope as quickly as possible.

 - If a rope is occupied by a pushy monkey, wait until it climbs up to
   the top before making your jump

 - A crocodile's underbelly is particularly vulnerable; try to come
   from beneath when stabbibg one.

 - If you want to conserve lives, simply avoid the crocodiles instead
   of stabbing them.

 - For an extra lift whn jumping over boulders and cannibals, push the
   joystick forward before you jump.  Not only will you jum higher,
   but you'll also stay aloft longer.

 - Sometimes you'll find a large boulder rolling faster than a small
   boulder.  Try to time your leap so that you jump over both at the
   same time.

 - Time your leaps over the cannibals' spears so you reach your friend
   when she's descending towards the pot.  If you leap when she's too
   high, you'll fall into the soup!

 END

 Typed by Todd DuBrey (kingart@cityusa.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
