
 KABOOM!

 BY ACTIVISION

 BOMB SQUAD BULLETIN
 Activision (R) 5200 (TM) Series

 The Mad Bomber is up to his old tricks.  He's dropping bombs from
 rooftops.  You are issued three water buckets to catch his bombs
 before they explode.  The more you catch, the faster he will drop
 them.  If you miss a bomb -- KABOOM! (R)

 BOMB SQUAD START-UP
 -------------------

 1.  Insert cartridge into your Atari 5200 (TM) console with the power
     OFF.  Then, turn power ON.

 2.  Plug in controller(s).  Solo player uses left controller.

 3.  Slip keypad overlay onto controller(s).

 4.  Select game variation by pressing appropriate numer, 1-3, on
     controller keypad.

     * 1. One Player vs. the Mad Bomber.
     * 2. Two Players taking turns vs. the Mad Bomber.
     * 3. Pitch & Catch -- two players taking turns playing the Mad
          Bomber (dropping the bombs), and moving the water buckets
          (catching the bombs).

 5.  To choose size of water buckets, press the BUCKET key on the
     controller keypad.  The size of the buckets changes from large to
     small on-screen.

 6.  To begin or start a new game, press the START key.

 7.  To select a new game variation, press the RESET key.  Then,
     repeat steps 4-6.

 8.  Turn power OFF before removing KABOOM! (R) cartridge.

 BUCKETS AND BOMBS
 -----------------

 Moving your water buckets.
 You begin with a column of three water buckets.  To move the buckets
 left and right, move the control stick left and right.

 Start the bombs falling.
 The Mad Bomber will start dropping his bombs in groups when you press
 the lower red button on either side of the controller.  When you
 catch all the bombs in one group, press either lower red button again
 to start the next group.  The upper red buttons are not used.

 Catching bombs earns points.
 You score points each time a bomb splashes in one of your water
 buckets.  The faster the bomb is falling, the more points it is
 worth.  All bombs in any group fall at the same speed.

 Missing a bomb.
 Each time you miss a bomb, the remaining on-screen bombs explode, and
 you lose your water bucket.  The Mad Bomber grins a wide smile to
 express his happiness.  When you lose all your water buckets, Kaboom!
 (R) ends.

 Replacement Buckets.
 For every 1000 points you score, a new bucket appears AS YOU PLAY.
 Unfortunately, only three water buckets are allowed on-screen at any
 one time.  So you must have already lost at least one bucket to be
 awarded a replacement bucket.  Sorry!

 PITCH AND CATCH
 ---------------

 Player one controls the water buckets first, while player two moves
 the Mad Bomber.  After player one misses a bomb, player two gains
 control of the water buckets and player one moves the Mad Bomber.
 The player controlling the water bucket presses either lower red
 button on their controller to start the bombs falling, and is the
 only player to score points.

 REGISTERING HIGH SCORES
 -----------------------

 When Kaboom! (R) ends, move the control stick left or right until
 your first initial appears on-screen.  Then, press the lower red
 button on either side of your controller.  Repeat the procedure for
 your second and third initials.  Your score and a picture of the
 size of the water buckets you used will be displayed next to your
 initials.  The screen will display the three highest scores at the
 end of all games.  Pressing the RESET key will not affect the high
 score register.  High scores cannot be registered when playing Pitch
 & Catch.

 JOIN THE ACTIVISION (R) "BUCKET BRIGADE"
 ----------------------------------------

 If you score 1800 or more points in game variation 1 or 2, then send
 us a picture of your explosive achievement (TV screen).  We'll
 gladly enroll you in the Bucket Brigade club and send you the
 official Bucket Brigade emblem shown below.  Be sure to include your
 name and address, and write "KABOOM! 5200" on the bottom corner of
 the envelope.

 HOW TO MASTER KABOOM! (R)
 -------------------------

 Tips from Paul Wilson

 Paul Wilson has a PhD in Physics from Michigan State University.  He
 grew up on a farm in Minnesota and continues to enjoy vegetable
 gardening.

 "I have found that the Mad Bomber is really not such a bad guy.  It's
 just that he knows all the tricks of his trade.  Here are a few
 tricks that I use to score well at Kaboom! (R)

 "First and foremost, select the big water buckets.  They are twice as
 large as the small ones, so you double your chances of catching the
 Mad Bomber's bombs.  And practice moving the buckets back and forth.
 You'll need to develop the touch to know just how far to move the
 control stick to move the buckets from one side of the screen to the
 other.

 "Once you reach the higher bomb levels, you'll notice that the Mad
 Bomber really starts dropping the bombs fast.  You won't be able to
 aim and line-up your buckets under each bomb.  If you watch closely,
 you'll begin to recognize patterns.  Follow the bomb patterns, and
 move your buckets accordingly.

 "If you are playing Pitch & Catch and you are controlling the
 buckets, position your buckets under the Mad Bomber before pressing
 the red button.  It's the only way to ever guarantee catching any
 bombs.

 "And if you ever score 10,000 points or more, the Mad Bomber will
 show you how impressed he is.  Watch for it!

 "When your water buckets are completely filled with the Mad Bomber's
 bombs, and you have the time, drop me a line.  It would be a blast
 to hear from you."

 -- Paul Wilson

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
