
 KEYSTONE KAPERS

 BY ACTIVISION

 INSTRUCTIONS FOR KEYSTONE KAPERS FOR ATARI 5200

 *  Plug in cartridge.  Turn power ON.

 *  As soon as the title screen disappears, the timer will start
    counting down.  You can now begin moving Keystone.

 *  Keystone Kelly follows the left or right movements of the control
    stick.  He jumps when you press either side button on the
    controller.  For a long, running jump, press the button while
    pushing the control stick left or right.  Keystone will duck when
    you pull the control stick back.  He'll step into an elevator when
    you push it forward, and out when you pull it back.

 *  The security scanner at the bottom of the screen is an overview of
    all the floors and the roof.  Keystone is the black dot, the crook
    is the white dot.  The elevator is the moving grey squre in the
    middle and the escalators are the black slashes at either end.

 *  The merit system's timer is to the left of your score.  It starts
    counting down as soon as the game begins.  Nine seconds are
    deducted whenever Keystone collides with a shopping cart, beach
    ball or radio.  When only 9 seconds remain, the timer flashes.  Be
    warned!

 *  To pause the action, press the pause button.  To resume the
    action, press it again.

 *  The game ends when your entire squad of cops has gone off duty.
    Any of the following will send them on their way:

    Colliding with a biplane.
    Running out of time.
    Allowing a crook to escape off the roof.

 *  Scoring.  Each time a crook is apprehended, you'll receive points
    based on the time remaining.  Also, 50 points are awarded for each
    recovered suitcase or gold bag.

 *  Bonus cops.  You begin with Keystone Kelly on active duty and
    three cops on reserve.  With every 10,000 point increase, a bonus
    cop is added to your reserve squad, up to a maximum of 3 on screen
    at a time.

 We really DO appreciate your calls and letters, so don't be shy!  Our
 phone number is (415) 940-6044/5, and our address is shown below.
 Ask questions, make suggestions, or just tell us who you are.

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
