
 MARIO BROS.

 BY ATARI

 #CX5247 Released for the Atari 5200 Supersystem (C) 1983

 Note:  Always turn the console POWER switch OFF when inserting
 or removing an ATARI Game Program(tm) Cartridge.  This will
 protect the electric components and prolong the life of your
 ATARI Video Computer System(tm) game.

 MARIO'S PLUMBING PROBLEMS!

 Mario the carpenter and his brother Luigi are hopping mad!
 The water pipes in their house are blocked with crawling
 creatures.  If the two brothers can't get rid of them, they'll
 never take a bath again!

 Your task is to help Mario and Luigi knock the pipe pests off
 the floors and into a puddle of water below.  Each time a pest
 is knocked off, you earn points; when all the pests are knocked
 off, the next round begins.  You start the game with six lives,
 and earn one additional life at 20,000 points.

 THE PESTS

 Knocking off a pest is a two-part maneuver:  First punch the
 floor directly beneath a pest to flip it on its back, then
 jump up and kick it off the floor before it recovers.  The
 pipe pests you encounter are:

 Shellcreeper (turtle):  To eleminate a shellcreeper, hit it
 once from below, then kick it off the floor before it crawls
 out of its shell and rights itself.

 Sidestepper (crab):  Sidesteppers are harder to knock off.
 The first time you hit one, it becomes enraged.  Hit it again,
 and it will flip over.

 Fighterfly (butterfly) :  Fighterflies hop from one section
 of the floor to another; the only time you can flip one over
 is when its feet are touching the floor.

 A pipe pest is worth 800 points when you knock it off a
 floor.  If you can kick more than one pest off a floor
 within a short amount of time, however, you'll score extra
 points. For example, if you kick off three pests at once,
 you'll score 800 points for the first, 1600 for the second,
 and 2400 points for the third.

 BONUS COINS AND COIN PHASE

 Earn 800 extra points for every bonus coin picked up.  A
 coin comes out of a waterpipe each time a pest is kicked
 off a floor.

 At certain times during a game, the pests disappear and
 a coin phase begins.  During a coin phase, the screen is
 filled with dangling coins; you are given a limited amount
 of time to collect the coins.  In the first coin phase,
 you earn 5000 points if all the coins are collected within
 22 seconds.  In subsequent coin phases, you earn 8000
 points if all the coins are collected within 18 seconds.

 THE POW SWITCH

 The POW switch is located on your screen between the two
 lowest floors.  If Mario or Luigi hits the POW switch, it
 delivers a punch to all the pests on the screen.  You may
 use the POW switch only three times before it disappears,
 but a new POW switch appears after every coin phase.

 SLIPICE

 In higher levels of game play, you'll encounter Slipice,
 an iceman who freezes floors into slippery ice. To prevent
 Slipice from freezing floors, punch him from below the same
 way you would hit a pest.

 FIREBALLS

 During the game you'll encounter blazing hot fireballs that
 can fry Mario or Luigi to a crisp.  There are two types-
 orange fireballs that bounce between levels, and gold
 fireballs that stay on a single level.  Avoid fireballs if
 you can, and score extra points by punching them from below
 when they touch a floor.

 TWO-PLAYER GAMES

 In two-player games, one player controls Mario while the
 other player controls Luigi.  This opens up new worlds of
 game-playing stategy.  For example, you can play as a team
 with one player punching the pipe pests and the other player
 kicking pests off floors.  Or, you can compete with each
 other to see who can achieve the best score.  Watch out for
 sneak attacks--your opponent may punch a pest back onto its
 feet just when you're about to kick it off a floor!

 USING THE CONTROLLERS

 Plug one 5200 controller firmly into jack 1 for one-player
 games; plug a second controller into jack 2 for two-player
 games.  The player using jack 1 controls game selection and
 starts the game. Use your joystick to move Mario and Luigi
 left or right; use the bottom fire buttons to make Mario
 or Luigi jump.

 CONTROL KEYS
 Press START to begin the game.
 Press PAUSE to freeze the action; Press PAUSE again to resume
 game play.
 Press RESET to return to the game option screen.
 Press * to select a one- or two- player game.

 SCORING
 Flipping a pest                          10
 Kicking a pest off the floor             800
 Hitting Slipice                          500
 Hitting an Orange Fireball               1000
 Hitting a Gold Fireball                  200
 Bonus Coin                               800
 Collecting all Bonus Coins (1st phase)   5000
 Collecting all Bonus Coins (2nd phase+)  8000

 HELPFUL HINTS
 *Use your POW switch when there's one more than one pest on
 the screen.
 *Watch out for the last pest on the screen--it will speed up
 and be much harder to punch.
 *Try to hit a Sidestepper two times as quickly as possible.
 If you're fast, you can flip it over before it scurries off to
 a different level
 *Learn the fastest route to pick up coins during a coin phase.

 Atari welcomes your comments.  Please address all
 correspondence to:
 Arari, INC.
 Customer Relations
 1312 Crossman Avenue
 Sunnyvale, California 94806

 Atari CX5247  A Warner Communications Company

 END

 Typed by Dan Reinholtz  (sammy97@niu.edu)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
