
 MEGAMANIA

 BY ACTIVISION

 Notes From A Nightmare....Megamania

 Copyright 1983 Activision, Inc. FZ-003-03

 Page 1)

 Wave after wave of the most unlikely obijects invade your celestial
 dreams. For you, sleep becomes a space nightmare.  Outrageous enemies
 drop bombs and collide with your mobile blasters. One hit and your
 blaster disintegrates.  Shoot as many of the violators as you can
 before your fleet is destroyed, and return to restful dreams.

 INITIAL SET-UP

 1.  Insert cartridges into your Atari 5200 console with power OFF.
 Then, turn power ON.

 2.  Plug in controller(s).  Solo player uses left control. Uses no
 overlay.

 3.  To select 1 or 2 players, press the (#) key.
 *Player 1's mobile blaster and score are blue.
 *Player 2's mobile blaster and score are green.

 4.  To choose straight or guided missiles, press the (*) key.
 *Both players must use the same type of missiles.

 5.  Begin a new game at any time by pressing the START key.

 6.  Pause the action whenever you like by pressing the pause key on
 your controller.  To resume the game, press the pause key or either
 lower red button on the controller.

 7. Turn power OFF before removing MegaMania cartridge.

 Page 2)

 MOBILE BLASTERS

 Your mobile blaster glides to the left and right when you move the
 controller left and right. To fire its missiles, press the lower red
 button.  Hold the red button down for continuous fire.  Each blaster
 is equpied with an unlimited number of missiles.  Blast away!

 Energy bar and Alarm.  Your blasters use up a constant rate of energy
 no matter how much you move them or fire their missiles.  Even so,
 always keep a keen eye on the energy bar.  If all the energy is
 exhausted before you destroy an attacking wave, your blaster
 disintegrates.  Fortunately, an alarm alerts you when your energy
 is low and you haven't much time.

 Reinforcements.  You begin each game with three blasters in reserve.
 For every 10,000 points you score, you are awarded one additional
 blaster up to a maximum of six on-screen at any one time.

 Page 3)

 MEGA-MADNESS

 MegaCycle.  There are eight waves of different enemy obijects that
 infiltrate your dreams.  When you have destroyed all the objects in
 all eight waves, the nightmare not only continues, it gets worse!
 Enemy waves repeat their sleep assault at a quicker pace, and their
 patterns of motion are more sophisticated.

 MegaSphere.  All the enemy objects travel in an orbital path. When an
 object disappears off the bottom of the screen, it reappears at the
 top.  If it leaves your field of vision on one side, it returns to
 haunt you on the other side.

 MegaPoints.  Every time you destroy an enemy object, you score
 points.  Each object within an enemy wave has the same point value.

 Scoring System

 Enemy Object                      Point Value
 Deluxe Hamburgers                 20
 Ice Cream Sandwiches              30
 Refrigerator Magnets              40
 Radial Tires                      50
 Diamond Rings                     60
 Steaming Irons                    70
 Party Bow Ties                    80
 Dreaded Space Dice                90

 These point values apply to the first MegaCycle only.  After that,
 each object in all successful waves is worth 90 points.  At the end
 of each game, the highest score registers on-screen in black.

 MegaBonus.  You receive bonus points for every "unit" of energy
 remaining on the Energy Bar at the moment you destroy the last
 object in any enemy wave.  So, the faster you destroy a wave, the
 more MegaBonus points you'll earn.  And you'll need all you can get.

 Page 4)

 JOIN THE ACTIVISON "MEGAMANIACS"

 If you reach a score of 45,000 points or more, then we know that
 you weren't day-dreaming out there.  You defeated some of the
 craziest space flotsam and jetsam to interrupt anyone's sleep.  And
 that means you're eligible to become an official MegaManiac.  Just
 send us a photo of your mega-mastery (TV Screen), along with your
 name and address, and we'll send you an outrageous MegaManiac
 emblem.  Be sure to write "Megamania 5200" on the bottom left corner
 of the envelope.

 Page 5)

 HOW TO BECOME A MEGAMANIAC

 Tips from Glyn Anderson and Steve Cartwright.

 Glyn Anderson enjoys playing wind and string instruments, with his
 speciality being keyboards.  Steve Cartwright is an enthusiast of
 motorcycle touring and photography.

 "Megamania is no slumber party.  Here are some tips we use to battle
 the madness and ensure a good night's sleep.

 First off, keep your mobile blaster in the center of the screen as
 much as possible.  This will enable you to more effectively guide
 your blaster when you need to.  Plus, it minimizes your chances of
 getting caught in a corner.

 Also, don't try to `catch-up' with any enemy objects that have flown
 past your blaster. Your blaster is quick, but the enemy objects are
 just a bit faster.

 Finally, don't let the steam from the Steaming Irons touch your
 blaster, or you'll get burned.  And when you are battling the steam
 irons, be sure to knock out at least one iron from each of the three
 columns before they descend to the bottom of the screen.  If you
 don't, you'll suffer the consequences.

 When you are wide awake, and you feel that you're safe, drop us a
 line.  We'd love to find out which enemy wave gave you the most
 trouble, and if your dreams have returned to normal".

 Steve Cartwright     Glyn Anderson

 Page 6)  Activision Video Game Cartridge Limited One-Year Warranty

 Page 7)

 Let us get to know you!  If you have questions or comments about
 our games or clubs, or want to be added to our mailing list, drop us
 a note or call us toll-free at (800)633-GAME.  In California, call
 (415)940-6044/5.

 Activision
 Drawer 7287
 Mountain View, CA 94039
 Atari and Atari 5200 are trademarks of Atari, INC.

 (C) 1982, 1983 Activision, Inc.  FZ-003-03.  Printed in U.S.A.

 END

 Typed by Dan Reinholtz (sammy97@niu.edu)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
