
 MOON PATROL

 BY ATARI, INC.

 Let's Be Careful Out There!

 When you signed up with the Luna City Police Department, who would
 have thought that you'd be assigned to Sector Nine--home of the
 toughest thugs in the galaxy?  Sure, you've got the finest patrol car
 on the force--complete with anti-gravity jump buttons and laser
 bullets--but in the rough terrain of Sector Nine you need more than
 fancy equipment to survive.  Just evading huge craters and moon rocks
 is hard enough  without having to deal with hostile UFOs and enemy
 landmines and tanks.  Getting through your patrol in one piece is
 almost impossible!

 Starting the Patrol

 Insert your MOON PATROL cartridge in your ATARI 5200 SuperSystem as
 explained in your owners guide, and turn on your system.

 Plug one 5200 controller into jack 1 for one-player games; plug a
 second controller into jack 2 for two-player games.  In two-player
 games, the player using jack 1 will start, pause, and reset the game.

 Press # to choose the BEGINNING or CHAMPIONSHIP course and * to
 choose a one- or two-player game.

 Press START to begin your patrol.

 Press PAUSE once to pause during a game.  Press it again to resume
 play.

 Press RESET to return to the game option screen.

 When a game is over, or when you press RESET, you have the option to
 continue playing on the same section of your beat.  When the word
 CONTINUE appears on the screen, press number 2 on the keypad to begin
 the game on the section where you last appeared.  Otherwise, you'll
 appear at the beginning of the course when you press START.

 Patrol Car Controls

 Use the top fire buttons on your 5200 controller to make your patrol
 car jump; use the bottom fire buttons to shoot at enemies or
 obstacles.  Push your joystick right to increase the speed of your
 patrol car and left to slow it down.

 Patrol Details

 Your beat is divided into two courses:  BEGINNING (for rookies ) and
 CHAMPIONSHIP (for experienced cops).  Each course is divided into 26
 segments, marked by points A-Z.  A gauge at the top of the screen
 indicates your location.  The gauge is divided into five sections:
 A-E, F-J, K-O, P-T, and U-Z.  At the end of each section, you're
 awarded bonus points based on your travel time.  The faster you
 complete a section, the more points you'll score.

 As you travel your beat, the number of obstacles you encounter
 increases, and it becomes harder to avoid enemy attacks.  You start
 the game with four patrol cars, and earn a bonus patrol car at
 10,000, 30,000, and 50,000 points.

 Hints For Rookie Drivers

 * Play the BEGINNING game variation first, to learn how to control
   your patrol car.
 * You'll jump farther when your patrol car is moving fast; be sure
   you're driving fast enough to jump over an obstacle.
 * Try taking one long jump over two closely positioned obstacles.
 * Your laser bullets are only effective a short distance in front of
   you.  Don't fire too early, or you might miss your target.
 * Some UFOs drop missiles that form new craters.  Learn to recognize
   these UFOs and eliminate them quickly.
 * When an enemy missile appears from behind, jump over it, then
   blast it when it's in front of you.

 SCORING

   OBSTACLE        Jumping   Shooting  Drinking

   Crater            50          -        -
   Land Mine         50          -        -
   Rock             100          50       -
   Rolling Rock      50          50       33
   Tank             100         100       -
   UFO               -          100       -
   Enemy Missile     -          500       -

   BONUS POINTS
                                               Points
      Completing a section under the average   100 per second
      travel time
      Completing a section                     1000
      Completing the course                    5000

      Note:  Bonus points are awarded only if your travel time is
      less than the average time.  Travel time and average time are
      displayed on the screen after finishing each section.

 END

 Typed by Jay Tilton (tiltonj@erols.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
