
 MOUNTAIN KING

 BY CBS ELECTRONICS

 SETTING UP YOUR VIDEO CONSOLE
 -----------------------------

 1.  Hook up your video game system, following the manufacturer's
     instructions.

 2.  With the power OFF, plug in the video game cartridge.

 3.  Turn power ON.  If no image appears, check the connection of your
     game system to the TV, then repeat steps 1-3.

 4.  Plug a 5200 Controller firmly into controller jack 1.

 5.  Keypad overlays are provided for your convenience.  If you
     desire, slip an overlay onto your controller's keypad.

 6.  The game will automatically start on Level 1.  To select a higher
     level, press the Skill Level square (the # key) on your keypad
     and then select the desired level number, 2 through 8.

 7.  Press the START key or one of the two bottom red buttons on the
     side of your controller.  If you have not used the Skill Level
     key, your Explorer will appear on the screen and dance across
     the mountaintop.  At the end of the dance, play begins on Level
     1.  To bypass the dance, press the START key again.  If you have
     used the Skill Level key, pressing the START key will
     automatically begin the game at the level selected.

 Note: Never remove your video game cartridge from the console unless
 the power is turned OFF.

 Deep inside a long-lost diamond mine is the secret Temple Chamber of
 a forgotten civilization.  There, a priceless Golden Crown sits high
 on a pedestal, vulnerable to plundering explorers seeking to control
 its power.  But this treasure is jealously guarded by the denizens of
 the mountain, and whoever has the daring and courage to challenge
 them, seize the Crown, and escape to the mountaintop with it will
 become MOUNTAIN KING!

 OBJECT OF THE GAME
 ------------------

 The object of MOUNTAIN KING is to capture the Golden Crown of the
 Temple and carry it safely to the top of the mountain.  You will
 attempt to do this as many tims as you can and on as many levels as
 possible before your time expires and/or you are destroyed.

 THE EXPLORER
 ------------

 Watch carefully as your Explorer does his dance at the beginning of
 Level 1.  You'll see all the different ways he can move and you'll
 also get a glimpse of the Perpetual Flame (where you must eventually
 take the Golden Crown).  You'll also hear the theme music for the
 game.

 Use the joystick of your controller to make the Explorer run to the
 left or right.  To jump from plateau to plateau, push the joystick
 away from you at a 45-degree angle to the left or right; he'll leap
 in the respective direction.  If you jump or fall to a lower plateau,
 you won't be hurt.  But, if you fall too far, you'll be momentarily
 stunned and unable to proceed for a few seconds.  To climb ladders,
 push the joystick away from you.  Pull it towards you to go down
 ladders or to kneel.

 You must kneel in order to claim the Flame Spirit, open Treasure
 Chests and gain entry to the Temple.

 Your Explorer is equipped with a flashlight used to find treasure
 chests and to confirm the location of the Flame Spirit.  To activate
 the flashlight, press one of the two bottom red buttons on the sides
 of your controller.  The upper side buttons have no function in this
 game.  The flashlight may only shine in the direction in which your
 Explorer is headed.  It cannot shine up or down.

 DIAMONDS & THE FLAME SPIRIT
 ---------------------------

 In order to gain entry to the Temple, you must first be in possession
 of the Flame Spirit.  To qualify for possession, you must collect
 1,000 points worth of diamonds.  Diamonds are embedded in the cavern
 walls throughout the mountain.  Merely pass over them to pick them
 up.  Each cluster of three diamonds is worth 10 points.  Once you
 have successfully collected 1,000 or more diamond points, a dancing
 flame will appear at the bottom of your screen indicating that the
 Flame Spirit is now available for capture.

 LOOK FOR: a very brief flame flicker.  This marks the location of the
 Flame Spirit.  The Flame Spirit itself is only fully visible with the
 flashlight on it.

 LISTEN FOR: the theme music.  The louder the music, the closer you
 are to the Flame Spirit.  On levels 2 through 8, the theme music will
 only play two verses.  If you fail to capture the flame spirit before
 the music ends, it will disappear again and leave a perpetually
 burning flame in its place.

 Before the Flame Spirit becomes available again, you'll have to
 collect another 1,000 diamond points.

 The Flame Spirit is randomly hidden within the mountain and is not
 likely to pop up in the same position more than once.

 Once you have successfully located the Flame Spirit, position your
 Explorer directly on top of it and pull the joystick towards you to
 kneel down and pick it up.  The Explorer will then be surrounded by a
 glittering halo.  Quickly proceed to the Temple.

 Note: Some players may find locating the Flame Spirit to be the
 hardest part of the game.  For them we have prepared some notes
 designed to ease the frustration of this quest.  These notes are
 located in the back of this manual.

 BATS
 ----

 Two kinds of bats inhabit the caves of the mountain.  Black Bats can
 only be seen with your flashlight.  But have no fear' they're
 harmless.  Gray Bats, however, are always visible and serve to
 protect both the Temple and its Golden Crown.  On Levels 2 through 8,
 Gray Bats will try to steal the Flame Spirit from you before you make
 it into the Temple.  On all levels, they'll try to steal back the
 Golden Crown before you're able to get it to the mountaintop.

 THE GIANT SPIDER
 ----------------

 Lurking at the bottom of the mine is a Giant Spider waiting to wind
 your Explorer in its web.  If you get caught, you'll be able to
 escape the web by rapidly moving the joystick forward and back.  You
 must do this quickly; if the Spider returns to find you still
 struggling, he will eat you and end the game.  The Spider will also
 steal back the Golden Crown should you possess it when caught and,
 on Levels 2 through 8, will take back the Flame Spirit as well.

 On Level 8, both the Spider and its web are invisible.  On all
 levels, you may escape the Spider altogether by leaping over him or
 jumping to a ladder or higher plateau.

 TREASURE CHESTS
 ---------------

 Randomly hidden throughout the depths of the mountain are 10 Treasure
 Chests.  They contain either Gray Bats or diamonds, but you won't
 know what's in any particular Treasure Chest until you open it.  If
 it contains diamonds, a short fanfare will sound and 250 diamond
 points will be added to your point total.

 To open a Treasure Chest, position your Explorer directly on top of
 it and pull the joystick towards you.  A new Treasure Chest will
 always be hidden for every one opened, except for chests opened
 while the Flame Spirit is available.

 A flashing white light at a Treasure Chest location indicates that
 the chest has been emptied, but has not yet been closed.  Pass right
 over it to close it and pick up an extra 10 points.

 One more point: Treasure Chests can only be seen using a flashlight!

 THE SKULL SPIRIT
 ----------------

 Guarding the entrance to the Temple is the ominous Skull Spirit,
 visible only with your flashlight.  Offer him the Flame Spirit and he
 will grant you entrance to the Temple.  To do this, position your
 Explorer directly under the entranceway and pull the joystick
 towards you.  The Skull Spirit will take the Flame Spirit and become
 visible only long enough for you to dash into the Temple.  Be fast;
 if the Skull Spirit disappears before you enter, you'll have to bring
 him the Flame Spirit again.

 THE GOLDEN CROWN
 ----------------

 Once inside the Temple, you must scale the walls to get to the Golden
 Crown.  Move the joystick forward to place it on your head and then
 pull it towards you to remove both you and the Crown from the
 pedestal.

 ESCAPING
 --------

 Once the Golden Crown is on your head, you'll hear a brief fanfare
 and then you must get out.  Drop to the floor of the Temple and back
 out into the mine.  Your challenge now is to get to the top of the
 mountain where the Perpetual Flame burns before time runs out or
 before the Bats steal the Crown from you.  If you make it to the
 mountaintop, you'll receive bonus points based on how much time you
 have left and then play will automatically continue at the next
 highest level.

 The Temple Chamber
 The secret resting place of the Golden Crown has remained untouched
 for centuries.  Now, its discovery has left it vulnerable to intrepid
 treasure seekers.

 SPECIAL FEATURES
 ----------------

 Ladders
 Use these to go up and down.  Your Explorer cannot jump from the top
 of a ladder.

 Flashlight
 Your flashlight has inexhaustible power.  Use it to see the Flame
 Spirit, Skull Spirit and Treasure Chests.  You cannot use it and pick
 up diamonds at the same time, nor will it work when you are caught
 in the Spider's web or are in possession of the Flame Spirit or
 Golden Crown.

 Flames
 Perpetual flames burn at the top of the mountain and around the
 Temple.  Also, if you fail to capture the Flame Spirit in the alotted
 time, it will leave a flame in its location.  If your Explorer runs
 into a flame, he will be burnt to a crisp and the game will end.

 If you manage to jump over one of the flames guarding the Temple,
 thereby gaining illegal entry, you will not be able to take the
 Crown without first having gained possession of the Flame Spirit.

 Scoring Display
 The score display at the bottom of your screen indicates three
 things.  At the top is your total score.  At the bottom left is the
 amount of time remaining to complete your quest.  At the bottom right
 is the number of diamond points needed before the Flame Spirit
 becomes available for capture.  When the Flame Spirit does become
 available, this number will turn white and display the bonus you'll
 receive upon capture.  The quicker you get the Flame Spirit, the
 larger the bonus.

 Pause and Reset
 To pause the game at any point, press the PAUSE key on your
 controller.  To resume the game, press this key again.  Pressing the
 RESET key will return the game to the title screen,

 MUSIC AND SOUNDS
 ----------------

 Music is one of the most critical and exciting elements of MOUNTAIN
 KING.  At the beginning of the game, listen carefully to the theme
 music.  You'll hear this theme again when the Flame Spirit becomes
 available.  The closer you are to the Flame Spirit, the louder the
 music will be.  Similarly, the faster the music is playing, the less
 time you have left to capture the Flame Spirit.  Once you get the
 Golden Crown and leave the Temple, you'll hear the theme music again.
 As you attempt to escape, the music will get faster and faster.  Just
 as before, the faster the music, the less time available to get to
 the mountaintop.

 Among the assorted sounds heard throughout the game, one to remember
 is the sound of the oncoming Giant Spider.  If you stay alert to this
 sound, you just may have enough time to get out of the way before the
 Spider snares you.  This will come in handy on higher levels where
 the Spider is harder to see.

 TIME
 ----

 Time is another critical element.  Depending on the level you're
 playing, you have a limited amount of time to complete your mission.
 At 1:59 left to play, the time display turns yellow.  With only :59
 left, it turns red and flashes.  At this time, the mountain will
 begin to rebel and small fires will appear throughout the mine making
 it increasingly more difficult for you to maneuver.

 BONUSES
 -------

 There are several bonuses you can pick up as you play:

 *  When you capture the Flame Spirit, you'll be given one additional
    minute of playing time at your current level.
 *  Also, for capturing the Flame Spirit, you'll receive bonus points
    depending on how long it took you to do so.
 *  For escaping the Temple with the Golden Crown, you'll receive
    5,000 points.
 *  For reaching the mountaintop with the Golden Crown, you will
    receive up to 20,000 points depending on how long it took you to
    get there and how much time is left in the game.
 *  If you happen to be standing on top of the mountain when time
    expires, you will be given a once-only bonus of one minute.

 SKILL LEVEL DISTINCTIONS
 ------------------------

                   Point Range
                    of bonus         Time to       Time to
         Total     for finding        find          reach
 Level   Time      Flame Spirit      Spirit       Mountaintop
 ------------------------------------------------------------
 1       8:00       3000/10         Unlimited       45 sec.
 2       6:00       3500/1440        40 sec.        40 sec.
 3       5:00       4000/3220        35 sec.        30 sec.
 4       4:00       4500/3020        30 sec.        30 sec.
 5       3:00       5000/3710        25 sec.        30 sec.
 6       3:00       5500/4410        22 sec.        30 sec.
 7.      3:00       6000/4910        22 sec.        30 sec.
 8       3:00       6500/5600        20 sec.        30 sec.

 END OF GAME
 -----------

 The game ends when your intrepid Explorer is burned to a crisp,
 becomes lunch for the Spider or runs out of time.

 When the game ends, the final score display will show:
 *  Total points scored.
 *  Last Skill Level played.
 *  The numer of times the Flame Spirit was captured.
 *  The numer of times the Golden Crown was removed from the Temple.

 If the Level display is flashing, it indicates that the Explorer
 perished with less than one minute remaining.

 WHO TURNED OUT THE LIGHTS?  OPTION
 ----------------------------------

 If you're looking for more challenge, try this version... When you
 start the game, press the Skill Level square, choose a level and then
 press the keypad square marked Challenge!  The plateaus of the mine
 will turn invisible.  Oh, they'll still be there (and you'll be able
 to see them with your flashlight) but it does make getting around
 them a little trickier.

 STRATEGY HINTS
 --------------

 1.  Practice maneuvering the Explorer to become familiar with the way
     he moves and how he jumps.  You'll need to be both fast and agile
     when you're trying to escape with the Crown.

 2.  Listen carefully to the sounds and the music.  They let you know
     when the Spider is approaching, how close you are to the Flame
     Spirit and how much time you have left to reach the mountaintop.

 3.  Don't open Treasure Chests while the Flame Spirit is available.
     They won't be replaced and you might need fresh ones later on
     when you're running out of time and diamonds.  Try to remember
     where they are and come back for them.

 MOUNTAIN KING SKILL CLINIC
 --------------------------

 Finding the Flame Spirit
 While the object of MOUNTAIN KING is to capture the Golden Crown and
 get it to the top of the mountain, new players find that the most
 challenging and, at times, frustrating element of the game is finding
 the Flame Spirit.  The following additional hints and reminders have
 been prepared to assist you in this quest:

 a. Remember that the dancing flame that appears at the bottom of the
    screen when you have collected 1,000 diamond points indicates that
    the Flame Spirit is available for capture.

 b. The key to success in finding the Flame Spirit is in using the
    musical score as your guide to its location.  When you come to the
    point where you feel the melody is loudest, STOP!  Look around the
    screen and THEN concentrate on finding a flash of golden light.
    That flash is the flickering Flame Spirit and as you become more
    experienced with the game, you'll have an easier time spotting
    if.  If you move up to it and shine your flashlight on it, you'll
    see it more readily.

 c. Once you have located the Flame Spirit, you must position your
    Explorer directly on top of it and pull the joystick towards you
    to gain possession of it.

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
