
 MS. PAC-MAN

 BY ATARI

 Insert your 5200 game cartridge so the label faces you and reads
 right-side-up. Be sure the cartridge is firmly seated in the
 center slot of the console, but do not force it. Then press the
 POWER switch on. See your owner's manual for further details.

 THE MS. PAC-MAN CHASE

 Here she is...the Queen of Video Games, MS. PAC-MAN! The object
 of the game is to score as many points as you can while trying
 to clear the mazes of dots. Use your 5200 controller to guide
 this fearless beauty around the maze as she gobbles up dots,
 fruit, pretzels, energy pills, and ghosts. Move your joystick up,
 down, right, or left to guide MS. PAC-MAN in the same direction.

 Watch out for four feisty ghosts. They scurry around after MS.
 PAC-MAN, trying to gobble her up. If one of them catches her, you
 lose a life. When MS. PAC-MAN eats an energy pill, the ghosts
 turn blue with fright. At this time, MS. PAC-MAN can gobble up
 the ghosts, racking up even more points with each ghost she
 gobbles.

 GAME PLAY

 You choose from the following eight skill levels which progress
 in difficulty:
 Teddy Bear
 Cherries
 Strawberry
 Orange
 Pretzel
 Apple
 Pear
 Banana
 (See GAME SELECTION.) Each time you clear a maze, game play
 progresses automatically to the next higher skill level.

 After MS. PAC-MAN clears the maze in the Banana skill level, the
 game difficulty progresses, but the fruit is chosen at random,
 and the mazes alternate. The random friut ranges from the fruit
 level at which you start. If you start at Cherries, you could
 encounter any fruit, but if you start at Bananas, you will only
 encounter Bananas, since that is the most difficult level.

 There are four different maze patterns and three different cartoon
 intermissions in the ATARI MS. PAC-MAN game.

 Maze 1
 This is the easiest maze. It is used in the Teddy Bear, Cherries,
 and Strawberry skill levels. The first cartton intermission begins
 after you clear the screen at the Strawberry level

 Intermission 1
 PAC-MAN and MS. PAC-MAN meet and it's love at first sight.

 Maze 2
 This is a difficult maze with long twisting corridors and an
 escape tunnel at the top. Maze 2 is used in the Orange, Pretzel,
 and Apple skill levels. The second cartoon intermission begins
 after the Apple level.

 Intermission 2
 PAC-MAN and MS. PAC-MAN alternately chase each other across the
 screen.

 Maze 3
 This is the most difficult maze with a trap at the bottom and only
 one short escape tunnel. Maze 3 is used in the Pear, Banana, and
 first two random fruit skill levels. The third cartoon intermission
 begins after you clear the random fruit maze twice.

 Intermission 3
 A visit from the stork delights PAC-MAN and MS. PAC-MAN.

 Maze 4
 This easy maze is used with random fruit(see GAME PLAY).

 The game then continues to progress in difficulty with random fruit,
 and four screens of maze 3 that alternate with four screens of
 maze 4.

 Each game starts with five MS. PAC-MAN lives, indicated at the
 lower left corner of the screen. You score points when MS. PAC-MAN
 eats dots, energy pills, ghosts, and fruit which appear twice on
 each screen. Each time the maze is cleared, the screen flashes
 momentarily, and a new maze of dots appears. The game ends when
 you lose all your MS. PAC-MAN lives.

 When MS. PAC-MAN eats an energy pill, the ghosts turn blue, and she
 can gobble them up for more points. Then the eyes of the gobbled
 ghosts float back to the reincarnation chamber in the center of
 the screen. Because the effects of the energy pill only last a
 short time, MS. PAC-MAN has to move fast. The ghosts flash and the
 music changes just before the energy pill wears off. Then the
 ghosts return to their original colors, and MS.PAC-MAN loses her
 ghost-gobbling power.

 USING THE CONTROLLERS

 Plug your 5200 controller firmly into jack 1 for one-player games;
 plug a second controller into jack 2 for two-player games.

 GAME SELECTION

 When the cartridge is inserted and the POWER is switched ON, the
 program automatically plays a MS. PAC-MAN game. Use this opportunity
 to see how the game is played. Press RESET to view a game selection
 screen with a MS. PAC-MAN billboard at the top. Press the left *
 key to choose the skill level you would like to play. The skill
 levels are indicated by fruit symbols on the screen. Press the right
 # key to choose a one- or two-player game.

 To START, PAUSE, and RESET a game
 Press START to begin playing a MS. PAC-MAN game.

 Press PAUSE to freeze all game play. Press PAUSE again to resume game
 play. Press PAUSE and START to start another game at the same skill
 level. Press PAUSE and RESET to return to the game selection screen.

 Press RESET to reset the game back to the game selection screen.

 Joystick Control
 Use your joystick to move MS. PAC-MAN around the maze. She moves
 in the same direction you move the joystick. For a quick escape,
 guide MS. PAC-MAN out an exit and through an escape tunnel. She'll
 re-enter the maze on the opposite side.

 SKILL LEVELS

 This ATARI MS. PAC-MAN game contains eight skill levels which are
 represented by symbols at the lower right corner of the screen. Each
 skill level progresses automatically to the next highest level when
 you clear the maze of dots. The easiest level is indicated by a
 Teddy Bear, and the most difficult level is indicated by a Banana.
 The Cherries level is the same difficulty as the arcade version of
 MS. PAC-MAN.

 SCORING

 The score for player 1 or a single player is displayed in the upper
 left side of the screen. The score for player 2 is displayed at the
 upper right side of the screen. The current player's score is white;
 the other player's score is red.

 You score 10 points for every dot and 50 points for every energy pill
 that MS. PAC-MAN eats. You score extra points when MS. PAC-MAN eats
 ghosts, floating fruit, and pretzels. The longer MS. PAC-MAN
 survives, the more valuable the bonus treats will become.

 POINTS
 DOT               10
 ENERGY PILL       50
 TEDDY BEAR        50
 CHERRIES         100
 STRAWBERRY       200
 ORANGE           500
 PRETZEL          700
 APPLE           1000
 PEAR            2000
 BANANA          5000
 FIRST GHOST      200
 SECOND GHOST     400
 THIRD GHOST      800
 FOURTH GHOST    1600

 BONUS LIFE at 10,000 points

 HELPFUL HINTS
 *For a high score: Wait until the ghosts are close to MS. PAC-MAN
 when she is near an energy pill. Then eat the energy pill and gobble
 up all the ghosts.
 *Get to know the different mazes. Each has its own escape tunnels
 which can often save MS. PAC-MAN at the last second.
 *Practice clearing the maze of dots before trying to gobble up
 ghosts. Eventually you'll learn which techniques work best.
 *When the ghosts start catching up with MS. PAC-MAN, try one of these
 tips to outrun them: (1) Dots slow down MS. PAC-MAN, so travel on a
 clear path. (2) MS. PAC-MAN can "cut corners" by turning before she
 actually reaches them. (3) Use the tunnels; the ghosts don't move
 as fast in them.
 *All the ghosts have different personalities and speeds. Watch and
 learn how they each chase MS. PAC-MAN.

 END

 Typed by Robert "Ferg" Ferguson (wombat2@ix.netcom.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
