
 PENGO

 BY ATARI, INC.

 Insert your 5200 (tm) game cartridge so the label faces you and reads
 right side-up.  Be sure the cartridge is firmly seated in the center
 slot of the console, but do not force it.  Then press the POWER
 switch on.  See your owner's manual for further details.

 GAME OBJECTIVE

 As Pengo the Penguin, you race around the ice field rearranging huge
 blocks of ice.  Your objectives: Destroy your opponents, the
 Sno-Bees, before they sting you; and line up three diamond blocks
 for a fortune in bonus points.

 Use your joystick controller to move Pengo around the ice field.
 Press the lower fire button to kick an ice block accross the
 playfield or to crush an ice block that is trapped against the wall
 or against another block.

 Squash the Sno-Bees by pushing ice blocks into them or by running
 Pengo over them when they are frozen.  Line up the three diamond
 blocks by crumbling and kicking strategic ice blocks around the field
 until all three diamond blocks adjoin.

 Each round is completed when you destroy all the Sno-Bees or when the
 last one escapes.  The game ends when you lose your last Pengo life.

 GAME PLAY

 You start the game with three, four, or five Pengo lives -- depending
 on the skill level you select.  The ice blocks that flash for a few
 seconds at the beginning of each round contain Sno-Bee eggs, which
 can hatch as play progresses.  Memorize their positions and destroy
 them as quickly as possible for bonus points.

 The diamond blocks are indestructible.  Your task is to line them up
 horizontally or vertically -- it doesn't matter in what direction.
 You get 10,000 points for lining up the diamond blocks inside the
 playfield -- really hard to do! -- and you get 5,000 points for
 lining them up against a wall -- much easier!

 Sno-Bees smash ice blocks to get at you.  If a Sno-Bee catches you,
 it delivers a killing sting.  Kill the Sno-Bees first by: squashing
 them with ice blocks, crushing them before they hatch, and stepping
 on them or squashing them with ice blocks when they are frozen.

 You can freeze Sno-Bees that are near one of the four ice field walls
 by pressing the lower fire button to push Pengo against the wall
 until it vibrates.  Any Sno-Bees touched by the vibrating wall will
 temporarily freeze.  While frozen, step on the Sno-Bees or squash
 them with an ice block.  Also, Sno-Bees are automatically frozen for
 a few seconds after you align all three diamond blocks.  While they
 are frozen, put the little nasties in permanent deep freeze by
 squashing them with ice blocks or by stepping on them.

 As a single round progresses, Sno-Bees get smarter.  The last
 remaining Sno-Bee is the most dangerous.  It moves faster and
 destroys blocks like lightning shattering ice cubes.  If you don't
 destroy it within a few seconds, this Sno-Bee goes into hybernation,
 thus ending the round.

 The clock on the intermission screen after each round displays the
 number of seconds it took you to complete that round.  If you cleared
 the playfield of Sno-Bees in less than 60 seconds, you receive
 special bonus points (see SCORING.)

 USING THE CONTROLLERS

 Plug one 5200 controller into jack 1 for a one-player game; plug a
 second controller into jack 2 for two-player games.  The player
 using jack 1 controls game selection and starts the game.

 Use your joystick to maneuver Pengo across the ice field.  He moves
 up, down, right, and left in the same direction you move the
 joystick.

 Press either or both bottom red fire buttons to kick ice blocks
 across the field, to crumble ice blocks, and to make the wall
 vibrate when Pengo stands near it.  The top red fire button does not
 function in Pengo.

 CONTROL KEYS

 Press START to begin the game.  Press PAUSE to stop and restart the
 action.  Press PAUSE, then RESET during game play to return to the
 game options screen.

 GAME OPTIONS

 Press the # key on your controller to cycle through the three PENGO
 skill levels: BEGINNER, INTERMEDIATE, and ADVANCED.  At the BEGINNER
 level, you start the game with five Pengo lives and only two Sno-Bees
 will buzz the ice field at any one time.  At the INTERMEDIATE level,
 you start out with four lives and no more than three Sno-Bees appear
 on the screen at one time.  You start the game with three lives at
 the ADVANCED level, and as many as four Sno-Bees can gang up on you
 simultaneously.

 Press the O key on your controller to select a one-player or
 two-player game.  The screen display will alternate between 1 PLAYER
 and 2 PLAYERS.  In two-player games, players take turns each time a
 Pengo life is lost.

 SCORING

 The first players's score appears at the top left of the screen and
 the second player's score is displayed at top right.  The highest
 score to date is displayed at top center.  You can score a total of
 99,999,999 points before the score rolls back to zero.  Point values
 are listed below.

 ACTIVITY                                  POINTS
 ------------------------------------------------
 Crumbling an ice block                        30

 Squashing Sno-Bees between Ice Blocks

 1 Sno-Bee                                    400
 2 Sno-Bees at once                         1,600
 3 Sno-Bees at once                         3,200
 4 Sno-Bees at once                         6,400

 Destroying a Frozen Sno-Bee by:

 Stepping on it                               100
 Squashing it between ice blocks              400

 Crushing an Ice Block Containing a           500
 Sno-Bee Egg

 Lining up Diamond Blocks:

 Against a wall                             5,000
 Inside the ice field                      10,000

 Time-Bonus Points for Destroying
 Sno-Bees

 Seconds                                   POINTS
 0  to 19                                   5,000
 20 to 29                                   2,000
 30 to 39                                   1,000
 40 to 49                                     500
 50 to 59                                      10
 60 or more                              No Bonus

 TRAK-BALL OPTION

 Atari 5200 PENGO offers a TRAK-BALL option.  A TRAK-BALL controller
 may be purchased seperately.  To play the game with a TRAK-BALL, plug
 it into jack 1 on your console.  Follow the instructions in this
 section to select the number of players and game variations.  You do
 not need a separate TRAK-BALL for each player.  Simply pass the
 TRAK-BALL back and forth as each turn comes up.

 HELPFUL HINTS

 * Kill as many Sno-Bees as possible with a single ice block.  You'll
 score lots of points and you'll get rid of the Sno-Bees quickly for
 potential time-bonus points.

 * Kicking and crumbling blocks in your path slows you down.  So if
 Sno-Bees are chasing you and you come up against an ice block, don't
 lose time by trying to destroy it, run around it!

 * Try to put a block between you and pursuing Sno-Bees.  Then use
 that block to crush the little nasties.

 * For higher points, remember to crush Sno-Bees with ice blocks
 rather than stepping on them.

 * The best strategy for lining up diamond blocks is to make a wall
 out of the regular ice blocks against which the diamond blocks can be
 pushed.

 * Each time you begin a new round, analyze the maze.  If it's easy
 to line up the diamond blocks, do that first.  If the diamond blocks
 are far apart and hard to align, kill the Sno-Bees first.

 * Remember that regular ice blocks are worth 30 points each.  So,
 after aligning the diamond blocks, start crushing the regular blocks
 for extra points, but don't destroy them all before you kill off the
 Sno-Bees!

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
