
 PITFALL

 BY ACTIVISION

 PITFALL HARRY'S GUIDE TO JUNGLE JOURNEYS

 Activision 5200 series

 Guide Pitfall Harry through a treacherous jungle maze.  He must leap
 over obstacles and dodge dealy dangers while grabbing all the treasure
 he can reach!

 GETTING UNDERWAY

 1.  With power OFF, insert the game cartridge into your Atari 5200
     console.  Turn power ON.

 2.  To begin a new game at any time, press the START key.

 3.  Use of Joystick Controller:
     * To run right or left, lean Joystick in that direction.
     * To jump over obstacles, press the lower red button on either
       side of your controller.
     * To climb up ladders, push the joystick forward; to decend, pull
       back.
     * To grab a swinging vine, press the lower red button while
       running toward the vine.
     * To jump from croc to croc across the swamp, press the upper red
       button.
     * To release the vine, pull the Joystick toward you.
     * To pick up a tresure, run by it.

 4.  Pause the action by pressing PAUSE key.  To resume play, press any
     numbered key on your controller pad.

 5.  Turn power OFF before removing cartridge.

 6.  Scoring.  You start each adventure with 2000 points.  If you fall
     down a hole you will lose 100 points.  Rolling logs also cause
     point loss; how much depends on how long contact is made with
     them.

     Finding treasure earns you points.  There ae eight of each type of
     treasure in the game, 32 in all, worth a total of 112,000 points.
     Collect them all without losing any points for falling down holes
     or tripping on logs and you'll have earned a perfect score--
     114,000!

     MONEY BAG        SILVER BAR        GOLD BAR        DIAMOND RING
     2000 points      3000 points       4000 points     5000 points

 7.  Time.  You have 20 minutes to complete each adventure.  Pitfall
     Harry begins each game with three lives (see "Perils of Pitfall").
     Game ends when time runs out or Harry loses all three lives.

 THE PERILS OF PITFALL

 Pitfall Harry's jungle Adventure involves great danger. Some hazards
 slow him down, robbing you of points; others stop him cold.  The
 "inconvenient" hazards are open holes in the ground and rolling logs
 (see "Scoring").  The "catastrophic" hazards include scropions, fires,
 cobras, crocodiles, swamps, quicksand and tar pits.  These obstacles
 will not cost you any points, but they will cost Harry one of his
 three lives.

 JOIN "PITFALL HARRY'S EXPLORERS' CLUB"

 Score 20,000 points or more on any one of your adventures with Harry
 and you will be eligible to join this prestigious organization.  Just
 send us a picture of your TV screen showing your score and we'll
 present you with the special "Explorers' Club" membership emblem shown
 below.

 A FEW WORDS ABOUT JUNGLE EXPLORERS

 Pitfall Harry aside, perhaps the best-known jungle explorer was David
 Livingstone, a Scottish medical missionary who spent many years in
 Africa.

 In 1868, Livingstone lost contact with the outside world.  Henry M.
 Stanley, a journalist who wrote for newspapers in New York and London,
 mounted an expedition to locate Livingstone.  In 1871, after a
 difficult and exausting search which often seemed destined to fail,
 Stanley located the missing missionary.  He aproached him and uttered
 the now-classic line, "Dr. Livingstone, I presume."

 Livingstone and Stanley were only two of the Europeans who explored
 the vast continent of Africa, and they were latecomers.  The earliest
 written histories tell us that ancient Egyptians were exploring Africa
 thousands of years ago!

 HOW TO PURSURE YOUR FORTUNE WITH PITFALL HARRY

 Tips from David Crane, designer of Pitfall!

 David Crane is an award-winning Senior Designer at Activision.  He also
 designed The Activision Decathlon, for the Atari Video Computer System.

 "As you set off on your first adventure with Harry, you'll notice two important
 features:  The logs always roll from right to left, and the "replacement"
 Harrys (after Harry loses a life) drop from trees on the left side of the
 screen.  So, to minimize the number of rolling logs to be jumped, and the
 catastopic hazards to be re-tried, simply run to the left.

 "Pitfall Harry's trip must be made through a maze of surface and underground
 passages through the jungle.  To capture all 32 treasures in under
 twenty minutes, Harry will have to use some of the underground passages.
 I'd suggest that you make a map of the terrain each time you play.  Knowing
 the jungle and planning the best route to all the treasures is the only way to
 insure success time after time.

 "Until you get really skilled at making Harry jump from coc to croc, you
 might wait until the crocodiles jaws are closed, jump to the top of the first
 croc's head, then wait for the jaws to open and close again before jumping
 to the next one.  Soon, you'll be skipping across crocs like they were stepping
 stones in a stream.

 "If you find any writing materials deep in the jungle, drop me a line.
 I'd love to hear how you and Harry are getting along."

 Adapted by Beck-Tech.

 END

 Typed by Jeffry Johnston (jeffryj@azstarnet.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
