
 Q*BERT

 BY PARKER BROTHERS

 OBJECT
 To score as many points as possible by changing the color of
 the cubes on the pyramid from a starting color to a destination
 color. You'll do this by hopping Q*bert from cube to cube
 while avoiding the "nasty" characters who will try to stop him.
 Each time you complete a pyramid, you'll proceed to a new
 pyramid--or round.

 SETTING THE CONSOLE CONTROLS
 1. Place the cartridge firmly into the cartridge slot.
 2. Push the POWER ON/OFF button. Power is on when the red light
 below the button is on.
 3. Press the number of the game you want to play (see Game
 Selection Box). The number will appear briefly in the lower
 right hand corner of the screen. If you skip this step,
 you'll automatically start playing Game 1.
 4. To begin play, press down on the START button.

 THE JOYSTICK CONTROLLERS
 Plug the joystick controllers into the jacks labelled "1" and
 "2." For one-player games, use only the "1" joystick.
 To move Q*bert from cube to cube press down on the Fire Button
 and move the joystick in the direction you want Q*bert to hop.
 Remember, Q*bert can only hop in a diagonal direction.
 To stop action press the PAUSE button. Press it again to
 resume play.

 [diagram of controller]

 PLAYING
 Q*bert
 You'll start the game with a set number of Q*berts (see GAME
 SELECTION BOX). The first Q*bert will appear on the topmost
 cube when the game starts. Remaining Q*berts are shown to the
 left of the pyramid.
 Try to hop Q*bert onto every cube so he changes the entire
 pyramid to the destination color. The destination color
 indicator is on the left of the screen.
 Be careful not to hop Q*bert off the sides or off the bottom
 of the pyramid. If you do, he falls and you lose that Q*bert.
 When this happens, the next Q*bert will appear on the topmost
 cube.

 Red Ball
 When Red Ball starts rolling, get Q*bert out if its path or
 it will squash him! If this happens, the next Q*bert will
 appear on the cube where the last one was squashed.

 Purple Ball
 Poses the same kind of danger as Red Ball, except that when
 Purple Ball reaches the bottom of the pyramid, it hatches
 Coily the snake!

 Coily
 He's the snake with the perilous pounce! The only way to get
 rid of Coily is to lure him off the pyramid by hopping a
 flying disc.
 Hop Q*bert onto the exit cube. (there is only one correct exit
 cube for each flying disc.) Then, as soon as Coily approaches
 the exit cube, hop Q*bert aboard the flying disc.

 Flying Discs
 When Q*bert's in trouble, he can board a flying disc that will
 whisk him off to safety at the top of the pyramid. The number
 of discs and their placement to the sides of the pyramid will
 differ, depending on the level and round.
 Just make sure Q*bert boards the flying disc from the correct
 exit cube or else he'll fall off the pyramid.

 Ugg and Wrong Way
 Ugg and Wrong Way appear on the lower portion of the pyramid
 and travel sideways and upwards, ready to jump on Q*bert.
 If one of them does, the next Q*bert will appear on the cube
 where the last one was jumped.

 Sam
 Sam can't catch Q*bert, but he changes the cubes' colors so
 Q*bert's got to retrace his tracks. If Q*bert stops him,
 however (by running into him), you'll earn bonus points.

 Green Ball
 Green Ball can't catch Q*bert either. But if Q*bert catches
 Green Ball, all the characters except Q*bert freeze for a
 moment, Q*bert can continue to hop, and you'll earn bonus
 points.

 END OF ROUND
 The round ends when you complete the pyramid. As long as you
 have a Q*bert remaining, a new pyramid will appear with a new
 destination color.

 ROUND PROGRESSION
 As you progress from round to round, Q*bert's speed, the speed
 of the other characters, and the frequency of the other
 character's appearances will increase.

 END OF GAME
 The game ends when you run out of Q*berts.
 To play the same game level press START or the Fire Button.
 To choose a different game level press SYSTEM RESET, then
 refer to Setting the Console Controls.

 TWO-PLAYER GAMES
 Games 4-6 are two-player games.
 The left player goes first; players alternate turns. Your
 turn ends when you lose a Q*bert.

 GAME SELECTION BOX
 Game 1  One-player  You start with 5 Q*berts
 Game 2  One-player  You start with 4 Q*berts
 Game 3  One-player  You start with 3 Q*berts
 Game 4  Two-player  You each start with 5 Q*berts
 Game 5  Two-player  You each start with 4 Q*berts
 Game 6  Two-player  You each start with 3 Q*berts

 SCORING
 Q*bert changes cubes to destination color...25 points
 Q*bert changes cubes to intermediate color..15 points
 Q*bert catches Sam.........................300 points
 Q*bert catches Green Ball..................100 points
 Q*bert lures Coily off pyramid.............500 points
 Extra points for unused flying discs........50 points
                                         for each disc
 Bonus points..............................1000 points
                       for completing the first round;
                  amount increases 250 points for each
                   successive round, up to 5000 points
 Bonus Q*berts.....................In Games 1, 2, 4, 5
            --one for the first 8000 points you score;
                   thereafter, one every 14,000 points
                                         In Games 3, 6
               --one for every 14,000 points you score

 Q*bert is a trademark of D. Gottleib & Co., All rights reserved
 Rules (c) 1983 Parker Brothers, Beverly, MA, 01915.

 END

 Typed by T.J. Rappel (trappel@athenet.net)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
