
 QUEST FOR QUINTANA ROO

 BY SUNRISE SOFTWARE INC.

 Help Yucatan Sam explore the dozens of terror filled chambers that
 create the mystical temple of the Mayan god Quintana Roo.  You must
 use your supplies as well as your cat-like reactions to avoid the
 sleeping snakes, overcome the mummy curse, and eliminate the other
 adversaries while attempting to solve the mystery that will deliver
 the hidden treasure to you and Yucatan Sam.  Since a different
 solution is required each time the game is started, you will be
 assured hours of mind-challenging, reflex-testing entertainment.  Do
 you dare to get involved?

 OBJECT OF GAME

 Yucatan Sam explores the temples of Quintana Roo searching for the
 keys to open the ceremonial vault and acquire the riches inside.

 LEVEL SELECT SCREEN

 On this screen you select the level of play at which you wish to
 start.  Press the proper key sequence (secret code discovered during
 play) for upper levels.  Press START button for first level.

 OUTSIDE TEMPLE SCREEN

 On this screen Sam must evade the poisonous snakes while climbing
 the outside of the temple to reach the portals to the rooms inside.
 Beware of the moon god's wrath reflecting from the eyes of the
 temple.  Use the joystick left, right, left-up or right-up to move
 around the outside of the temple.  Pressing a bottom fire button
 causes Sam to duck if he is outside a portal.  Pressing a bottom
 fire button causes Sam to enter the temple if he is in a portal.

 CHUTE SCREEN

 On this screen Sam is entering or exiting a temple room.  The
 joystick is not used on this screen.

 INSIDE A TEMPLE ROOM

 On this screen Sam can move around the floor of the room using the
 various tools and weapons.  Press the joystick in any of the eight
 directions to move Sam.

 Pressing the 1 key causes Sam to draw his gun.  Pressing a bottom
 fire button, while the gun is drawn, fires the gun.  The number of
 bullets Sam has left is shown at the bottom right of the screen.

 Pressing the 2 key causes Sam to grasp a flask of acid.  Pressing a
 bottom fire button, while the acid is in Sam's hand, causes Sam to
 throw the acid.  The amount of acid Sam has left is shown at the
 bottom left of the screen.

 Pressing the 3 key causes SAM to grasp his chisel.  Pressing a
 bottom fire button, while Sam is holding the chisel, causes Sam to
 use his chisel.

 Pressing the 4 key causes Sam to read his Geiger counter.  The
 Geiger counter reading is shown at the bottom center of the screen.
 A low value indicates nothing exciting.  A mid value indicates that
 there is an object in the room above or below the one Sam is in.  A
 high value indicates that there is an object in the room.

 Pressing the 5 key causes Sam to drop whatever he is carrying.

 Pressing the 6 key causes Sam to pick up a map rock if he is
 standing over one.

 Pressing a bottom fire button causes Sam to squat and pick up
 objects if he has nothing in his hand.  This will also allow Sam to
 exit a room if he is standing in the doorway.

 ADVERSARIES

 Inside the temple Sam will encounter the following enemies:

 Snakes -- destroyed by shooting
 Spiders -- destroyed by shooting
 Mummies -- destroyed by acid

 TREASURES

 Inside the vaults Sam will find the following objects:

 Map rocks -- Used to open vault
 Treasures -- used to score points
 Acid -- Restocks Sam's supply

 MAGIC HERBS

 If Sam is bitten by a snake or spider he has one minute to find the
 magic herbs and pick them up thereboy curing himself.  The amount of
 time Sam has left before he dies is shown at the bottom center of
 the screen.

 TEMPLE AIR

 The air in the temple is very stale.  When Sam enters the temple he
 has only one and a half minutes of breathable air.  He must exit the
 temple before this time is gone or he will die.  The time remaining
 is shown at the bottom left of the screen.

 MAP VAULT

 In order to open the map vault Sam must graps a map rock and place
 it in the proper map rock hole.  This is done by positioning Sam
 under the desired hole and pressing a bottom fire button.  If the
 rock is the proper one the hole will disappear, if it is incorrect
 the map rock will be relocated somewhere in the temple.

 OPENING VAULT

 There are two ways to open a vault door.  The first is using the
 chisel.  If Sam strikes the secret rock with the chisel the vault
 will open.  In order to hit the secret rock Sam must be standing as
 near to the wall as possible.  The second method uses the acid.  If
 Sam stands as near to the wall as possible and throws the acid onto
 the wall, the vault door will be opened.

 SCORING

 Killing enemies           100 points
 Opening valut             100 points
 Picking up treasure       1000 pints
 Inserting map rock        1000
 Opening map vault         5000

 HELPFUL HINTS

 -- Bring all five map rocks to the map vault room before inserting
 them.  This will make it easier to remember which ones you have
 tried.

 -- Save one flask of acid as a defense against the mummy.

 -- Leave one cache of acid flasks in an exosed vault room as an
 emergency supply.

 -- Sam can only carry five flasks of acid at a time.  If you pick up
 more you will lose the excess.

 -- When you are exploring the long columns of rooms keep an eye on
 your air timer.  Only explore half of the rooms at a time.

 -- Remember where the magic herbs are.

 -- Position your torch handle over the hole you wish to try when
 attempting to insert map rocks.

 -- For a much needed break in the ACTION, press the pause key.  To
 restart the game press any key or keypad.

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keitai@mindspring.com)
