
 REALSPORTS TENNIS

 BY ATARI

 Insert your 5200 game cartridge so the label faces you and reads
 right-side-up.  Be sure the cartridge is firmly seated in the center
 of the console, but do not force it.  Then press the POWER switch on.
 See your Owner's Manual for further details.

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
 -----------------

 1.  Match Point
 2.  Game Play
 3.  Using the 5200 Controller
 4.  Atari Trak-Ball Controller Option
 5.  Scoring
 6.  Game Variations
 7.  RealSports TENNIS Glossary

 SERVE 'EM UP!

 1.  MATCH POINT
 ---------------

 It's your serve, the score is 6-5.  If you take the point, the match
 is yours.

 It's been a long hot afternoon at center court.  Your opponent's
 striking forehand has given you difficulty all day.  To top it off,
 he has a thunderbolt serve and a cruel overhand smash.  Maybe you can
 beat him on stamina by running him around the court until he drops.

 Every seat in the stadium is filled with tense and anxious fans.  You
 nervously bounce the ball two or three times to relieve the tension.
 You're ready for the serve...he returns it with a forehand dropshot.
 You can't let this point get away.  Like lightening, you mentally
 pinpoint where your next shot will go; and then execute it by driving
 the ball down the sideline.

 The crowd's with you; they groan as your opponent saves the ball with
 a driving forehand, forcing you back to the baseline.  Quickly
 rethinking your strategy, you hit a defensive lob.  Your opponent
 returns it with one of his classic smashes to your backhand.  But
 this time, you're ready!  You whip a passing shot down the sideline
 to his backhand.  He lunges for it--but not far enough.  The crowd
 cheers as the ball whizzes past his astonished face.

 The point is yours; you take the match!

 2.  GAME PLAY
 -------------

 The object of ATARI RealSports TENNIS is to score enough points to
 win a match.  A match is the best of three sets. (See Section 5,
 SCORING for games, sets, and matches.)

 Choose from three game variations: singles against the computer,
 singles between two players, or doubles in which each team has one
 human player and one computer player.

 YOu can also choose between two skill levels--INTERMEDIATE or
 ADVANCED.  In advanced games, the ball travels faster than in
 intermediate games.

 At the end of each game, the receiver becomes the server, and the
 server becomes the receiver.  The players also change ends of the
 court after every odd-numbered game.

 3.  USING THE 5200 CONTROLLER
 -----------------------------

 Use your 5200 controllers with this ATARI game cartridge.  Plug the
 controller into jack 1 for one-player games; plug a second controller
 into jack 2 for two-player games.

 KEYPAD OVERLAYS

 For your convenience, two keypad overlays are included with this
 game.  Slip the tabs into the slots above and below the keypad on
 your controller (see Figure 2).

 When not in use, your keypad overlays can be stored on the back of
 your game cartridge.  Simply slip the tabs into the slots provided on
 the cartridge.

 CONTROLLER ACTION

 After inserting the cartridge and turning the console POWER on, the
 program displays a selection screen.

 GAME SELECTION

 Press the left * key to select an automated game (the squared marked
 AUTOMATED on your overlay).  An automated game allows you to play
 with either one or two computer players.  (See Section 6, GAME
 VARIATIONS for automated games.)

 Press the right # key to choose an intermediate or advanced game (the
 square marked SKILL LEVEL on your overlay).

 PLAYER SELECTION

 Press the O key to choose the number of players (the square marked
 NUMBER OF PLAYERS on your overlay).  Press the key until the desired
 number of players appears on the court.  All doubles games require
 two human players; one for each team.

 PLAYER NAMES

 Personalize your tennis match by programming your name into the
 scoreboard at the upper left corner of the screen.  First, use the
 top fire button to place the cursor (blinking square) over the P.
 Then press the lower fire button to cycle through the alphabet until
 you reach the desired letter.  When you've reached the correct
 letter, simply press the top fire button and the cursor will move to
 the next letter.  When you have completed your name, cycle through
 the alphabet until you find the "blank space".  Then program blank
 spaces until you've entered a total of seven characters.  Each player
 uses his own controller to personalize the scoreboard (see Figure 3).

 START

 Press START when you're ready to begin playing.  If you don't make
 a specific selection, the program automatically sets to an AUTOMATED
 INTERMEDIATE game for one player.  When a game ends, press START to
 begin the same game variation again.

 PAUSE

 Press PAUSE to suspend the game in progress.  PAUSE MODE will appear
 at the top of the screen and all action will freeze instantly.  Press
 PAUSE again to continue game play.

 RESET

 During game play, press PAUSE (PAUSE MODE must appear on the screen)
 and then RESET to return to the selection screen.  ALL players' names
 will be erased when the program is reset.

 SERVING AND RETURNING THE BALL

 The server has a choice of serving to the opponent's forehand or
 backhand.  Press the upper fire button to serve to your opponent's
 backhand; press the lower fire button to serve to your opponent's
 forehand.  The player using the controller plugged into jack 1 serves
 first.  Once the ball is in play, use your joystick to maneuver your
 player around the court.

 IMPORTANT: To stop your player, return your joystick to the upright
 center position.

 Choose your strategy before returning the ball by selecting your
 desired target area on the court.  Each half of the court is divided
 into nine target areas (see Figure 4).  Both the top half and bottom
 half are numbered from left-to-right and correspond exactly to the
 numbers on your keypad.  Whether you are playing the top or the
 bottom half of the court, you view the target areas as shown in
 Figure 4.

 To program your return, press the button (numbers 1 through 9) that
 corresponds to the area where you want to place the ball.  If you
 don't select a target area, a groundstroke will automatically be made
 to area 5.

 To select a lob shot, press O during game play.  But watch out, the
 computer player can smash a lob so fast, you won't be able to return
 it.

 Here are a few suggestions for using your joystick controllers along
 with your keypad.

 *  Place the controller on your lap; keep one hand on the joystick
    and the other hand on the keypad.  Use either hand to press the
    fire buttons for serving the ball.

 *  Try keeping your fingers over the keypad like a 10-key adding
    machine, or just use your thumb or one finger to press the keys.

 *  If you have large hands, try to maneuver the joystick with your
    thumb.  This will free your other hand to place your shot.

 4.  ATARI TRAK-BALL CONTROLLER OPTION
 -------------------------------------

 This RealSports TENNIS cartridge offers an ATARI TRAK-BALL option
 which may be purchased seperately (available in mid-1983).  The
 TRAK-BALL can be plugged into either jack at the front of the
 console.  (Follow the instructions in Section 3, USING THE 5200
 CONTROLLER for player and game selection, and using the keypad).
 Move your TRAK-BALL in the direction you want your player to move
 on the court.  See your TRAK-BALL owner's manual for further details.

 5.  SCORING
 -----------

 You score points in ATARI RealSports TENNIS as you would in real
 tennis.

 0 (ZERO)  =   Love
 Point 1   =   15
 Point 2   =   30
 Point 3   =   40
 Point 4   =   Game (not shown on screen)

 The first player to win a fourth point wins the game.  However, if
 both players score 3 points (40 each), the score is DEUCE.  After
 deuce, the next point scored is called advantage.  If that point is
 scored by the server, the screen displays AD IN.  If that point is
 scored by the receiver, the screen displays AD OUT.  To win a game,
 you must have a two-point lead.

 The first player to win six games wins a set, provided that the
 winner has a two-game lead.  The player to win two out of three sets
 wins the match.  If, at the end of a set, the score is 6-all, the
 players compete in a tie-breaker; they alternate serves until one
 player wins at least seven out of twelve points.  The winner of the
 tie-breaker must have a two-point lead to win the set.

 Scores are displayed at the top of the screen; player 1's score is
 displayed above player 2's score.  The game score is displayed at the
 upper right; the set score is displayed at the upper left (See Figure
 5 for scores.)

 How points are scored:

 *  The server wins a point if, for any reason, the opponent fails to
    return the ball.

 *  The receiver scores a point when the server fails to return the
    ball.

 6.  GAME VARIATIONS
 -------------------

 There are three game variations and two skill levels in this ATARI
 RealSports TENNIS game

 One-Player Singles            One player challenges the
      (AUTOMATED)              computer to a tennis match

 Two-Player Singles            Two players vie for the match

 Two-Player Doubles            Two players each team-up with a
      (AUTOMATED)              computer player for a game of doubles.
                               You must select the desired target area
                               for your computer teammate.

 SKILL LEVELS

 INTERMEDIATE -- An average game of tennis, which requires a basic
                 knowledge of tennis rules and strategy.

 ADVANCED   --   A faster than average game of tennis in which the
                 ball travels faster, and the emphasis is on strategy
                 and quick moves.

 7.  REALSPORTS TENNIS GLOSSARY
 ------------------------------

 ACE:           A point earned by serving a ball which cannot be
                returned by the opponent.

 AD:            Short for advantage.  A point won after a score of
                deuce.  If the same player wins the next point, he
                wins the game.  If he loses the next point, the score
                returns to deuce.

 BACKHAND:      A stroke made with the hitting arm and the racket
                across the front of the body and the back of the hand
                facing the direction the ball is to go.

 DEUCE:         A tie after each player has a score of 40.  To win a
                deuce game, a player must score two consecutive
                points.

 DINK:          A soft shot that falls just over the net.

 FOREHAND:      A stroke made with the palm of the hand facing the
                direction the ball is to travel.

 GROUND         Hitting the ball after it bounces.
 STROKE:

 LOB:           A stroke that sends the ball high in the air, over the
                opponent's head, and lands in the backcourt.

 MATCH:         In ATARI RealSports TENNIS, the best two out of three
                sets.

 OVERHEAD:      Hitting the ball while it is in the air, above the
                head.

 RUSH THE NET:  Running to the net in order to volley a return.

 SMASH:         A hard overhand stroke.

 VOLLEY:        Hitting the ball before it bounces.

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
