
 STAR TREK:
 STRATEGIC OPERATIONS SIMULATOR
 OFFICIAL ARCADE VERSION

 BY SEGA

 FOR THE ATARI(R) 5200(TM) GAME SYSTEM

 You are the potential Captain of the USS Enterprise. Your
 training mission: Save the Federation from their most
 powerful enemy...NOMAD!

 There are ten levels of progressive difficulty--six rounds
 of action-packed adventure each.

 Fight off marauding Klingons and menacing Anti-Matter
 Saucers. Destroy them before they destroy you or they will
 deplete your Enterprise functions and defenses.

 Dock with your Starbases to replenish your weapons and repair
 your damages.

 The longer you survive, the moer space dangers you'll
 encounter.  Maneuver through perilous fields of asteroids
 and blazing meteors.

 Store your energy! Sharpen your navigational skills! Prepare
 for the ultimate challenge: Destroy the deadly, mine-laying
 NOMAD!

 If you're successful, proceed deeper into space for more
 STAR TREK actoin. Ten different skill levels of unparalleled
 adventure!

 DO YOU DARE to venture where no video game has gone before?
 Be brave, be bold, be daring...but BEWARE!

 SCORING
 (Strategy Training Units = points)
 * Destroy Klingon cruiser--100 STU's x (Sector + 1)
 * Colliding with Klingon--100 STU's
 * Destroy Anti-Matter Saucer--5000 STU's
 * Each remaining green Starbase (not docked with)--2000-50,000
 STU's (Sector 0--2000, Sector 1--5000, Sector 2--10000,
 Sector 3--20000, Sector 4--25000, each consecutive Sector add
 an additional 5000 STU's)
 * Each remaining blue Starbase--500 STU's
 * Destruction of NOMAD--30000 STU's

 USING YOUR CONTROLLERS

 ENTERPRISE NAVIGATION Pushing the joystick FORWARD moves or
 THRUSTS the Enterprise in whatever direction it's positioned.

 Pushing the joystick LEFT rotates the Enterprise COUNTER
 CLOCK-WISE.

 Pushing the joystick 45 degrees LEFT rotates the Enterprise
 COUNTER CLOCK-WISE and THRUSTS it in that direction.

 Pushing the joystick RIGHT rotates the Enterprise CLOCK-WISE.

 Pushing the joystick 45 degrees RIGHT rotates the Enterprise
 CLOCK-WISE and THRUSTS it in that direction.

 Pulling back and holding joystick engages Warp Drive.

 CONTROLLER SWITCHES
 START - Starts game
 PAUSE - Pauses game. If paused for longer than 2-1/2 minutes,
 the game ends and goes back to the title page. To end pause
 press start.
 RESET - Ends game, goes back to the title page.

 HOW TO PLAY
 The object of the game is to destroy NOMAD before other
 enemies and obstacles destroy you!

 THE SCREEN You're at the helm of the U.S.S. Enterprise. Your
 screen is divided into three sections. Each one shows you vital
 mission data:

 [diagram of screen]

 A. GAUGES Tracks your score (Strategy Training Units) and monitors
 Enterprise defenses and weapons. Energy Shields (green lines) and
 Warp Drives (blue lines) are your two defenses. Photon Torpedoes
 (red rectangles) and Phasers (not shown on gauge) are your
 two weapons.

 Energy Shields  Activate automatically; protect Enterprise from
 enemy fire and damage.

 Warp Drive  Activate by pulling back and holding joystick.
 Steer normally.

 Photon Torpedoes  Push top fire button to destroy enemies in
 direct path of your Starship.

 Phasers  Activate unlimited number to destroy only one enemy at a
 time by pushing bottom fire button.

 B. RADAR SCANNERS  Your overhead view of the battle zone. Shows
 you the position of the Enterprise and your Starbase while it
 maps the constantly changing location of obstacles and enemies.

 C. VIEWER  Simulates a 3-D view of the enemy and obstacle
 encounters. It's the view from the bridge of the Starship
 Enterprise.

 D. SHIELD FORCE INDICATOR  The band in the middle of your screen
 changes color alerting you to the status of your Energy Shields.
 * Dark Green-5 or more shields  * Orange-2 shields
 * Light Green-4 shields         * Dark Orange-1 shield
 * Yellow-3 shields              * Red-ALERT! All Defenses Down!

 Game Play   Now you are ready to play STAR TREK. The game is
 divided into ten Sectors (different all skill levels). Each
 Sector has six different rounds:

 1. Klingon encounter                4. Klingon Encounter
 2. Klingon encounter                5. Klingon Encounter
 3. Asteroid Field or Meteor Shower  6. NOMAD

 Guide the Enterprise safely through a round of play and you
 automatically enter the next one.

 After surviving all six rounds in a sector, you automatically move
 to the next. As you advance, your enemies become more agressive
 and dangerous and your victories more rewarding!

 KLINGON ENCOUNTERS  In your quest to destroy NOMAD, you must first
 survive the attacks of the Klingon Battle Cruisers and
 Anti-Matter Saucers. The enemy vessels have the following
 characteristics:

 The Red Klingons ignore the Enterprise but try to destroy the
 Starbases. If a Red Klingon destroys a Starbase it turns white
 and sets out to ram the Enterprise.

 The Purple Klingons seek to destroy the Enterprise with
 Plasma Energy Orbs.  They will keep enough distance from the
 Enterprise to avoid collision while attacking. When Red Klingons
 turn white, Purple Klingons also turn white and try to ram the
 Enterprise.

 Yellow Anti-Matter Saucers appear randomly. If the saucer
 collides with the Enterprise, it attaches itself to the ship and
 drains all Warp Drive Energy.

 All defenses and weapons are available for use during Klingon
 Encounters. If you dock with green Starbases, (by flying into
 them), damage to the Enterprise is repaired. An Energy Shield,
 a Photon Torpedo, and a Warp Drive unit are added to your
 Starship's armory, if needed. Up to 127 Shields and Photons
 can be stored up.

 You may dock with each Starbase only once in each round. After
 docking, the Starbase changes from green to blue. The Red Klingons
 attack Bases. Each Base's Shield can survive ten (10) hits.
 When there are 5 Shields left, the BASE FLASHES RED!

 There is either one (1) or two (2) bases per round.

 ASTEROID FIELDS/METEOR SHOWERS
 After surviving two rounds of Klingon Encounters and random
 attacks from Anti-Matter Saucers, your Starship must maneuver
 through Asteroid Fields or Meteor Showers, seeking Starbases.
 Asteroids and Meteors move across you screen from left to right,
 faster than the Enterprise. Replenish your supplies as you prepare
 for your ultimate challenge! If you hit an Asteroid or Meteor,
 the round ends after next successful dock or if time runs out.

 NOMAD  is your greatest danger. His destruction is your greatest
 victory!
 You must hunt down and destroy NOMAD while avoiding its deadly
 missiles and the mines it lays in your path. If you strike a
 mine or are hit by one of NOMAD's missiles, your supplies are
 depleted. Skillful maneuvering and rapid fire of your Phasers
 are the key to your success. If you destroy NOMAD, the screen
 flashes a spectrum of colors and you receive maximum bonus points.
 Your Starship advances to the first round of the next, more
 difficult Sector.  NOMAD cannot be destroyed by a photon. You
 MUST use Phasers to destroy NOMAD!

 Remember, your success means SAFETY for the Federation!

 STRATEGIC TIPS
 After playing STAR TREK several times, you'll discover which
 techniques work best for you. Here are some tips you will find
 helpful in your mission:

 THE KLINGON ENCOUNTER
 * Keep the Enterprise moving--Klingons can't easily destroy a
 moving target.
 * Store up Photon Torpedoes for later sectors when enemy Klingons
 are more numerous.
 * Learn how to get Klingons to pursue the Enterprise in a line,
 and easily destroy them with one photon blast.
 * Use Warp to dodge Klingon's plasma. The Enterprise can not be
 harmed in any way while in Warp.

 THE ANTI-MATTER SAUCER
 * It always moves away from the Enterprise; to destroy it, make
 a swift about-face and fire away.

 YOUR STARBASES
 * Dock with your Starbase in early rounds to build up supplies
 for more difficult rounds.
 * Try NOT to dock in later rounds for increased bonus STU's.

 ASTEROID FIELD/METEOR SHOWER
 * You can only use your Enterprise steering controls.
 * Wind your way through obstacles by lightly moving joystick
 left or right to turn.
 * Only for wide sweeping turns should you HOLD the joystick left
 or right.
 * During this round, relax and replenish Enterprise supplies and
 prepare for NOMAD.

 NOMAD
 * Be patient, observe NOMAD's movements.
 * Avoid hitting or shooting mines, they will explode and deplete
 your supplies.
 * Effective use of Warp Drive can allow you to position yourself
 near NOMAD.
 * NOMAD places mines randomly. Try to get him as he travels
 across your path or while he is resting after reaching his
 destination.

 Copyright (c) 1983 SEGA ENTERPRISES, INC.
 STAR TREK is a trademark of Paramount Pictures Corporation.

 END

 Typed by T.J. Rappel (trappel@athenet.net)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
