
 SUPER COBRA

 BY PARKER BROTHERS

 OBJECT
 Brush off your ace piloting skills because you're about to
 take off on a hair-raising adventure: air surveillance of
 unfriendly territory. This means an 11,000 mile obstacle
 course through ever-changing terrain...over craggy mountain
 tops, around tall city buildings, through long jagged
 tunnels. And that isn't all! The course is just rigged
 with chopper-stopping weapons like igniting rockets, heavy
 ground artillery, flobbynoids, and flying saucers.
 Every 1,000 miles of terrain brings ever-increasing
 challenges and ever-certain...danger. But a handsome payoff
 lies at the end for anyone who's got what it takes!

 SETTING THE CONSOLE CONTROLS
 1. Place the cartridge firmly in the cartridge slot.
 2. Plug one or two hand-held controllers into controller
 jacks labelled "1" and "2." Use the controller in the "1"
 jack for a one-player game.
 3. Press the ON/OFF switch to ON.
 4. Press keypad button "#" to choose a one- or two-player
 game.
 5. Press either START or a bottom fire button on the
 controller in the "1" jack to start the action.

 THE HAND-HELD CONTROLLER
 Use the joystick on the hand-held controller to fly your
 chopper up, down, or to the right. Move the joystick left
 to "hover." Press either of the bottom fire buttons to fire
 your missiles and to drop bombs. Each press of the fire
 button fires both missiles and bombs. For rapid fire action,
 keep both fire buttons pressed down.

 THE PAUSE BUTTON
 Any time during the game, you may "freeze" the action. To
 do so, simply press PAUSE. To continue the action, simply
 press PAUSE again.

 PLAYING
 You'll start the game with five choppers. The first appears
 in action while the remaining ones wait "on deck" at the
 bottom of the screen.
 When the game begins, fly your chopper down screen to the
 right. The object is to avoid the obstacles that border
 around the chopper's air route in order to gain mileage.
 Hit an obstacle and the chopper goes down. When a chopper
 goes down, the next one comes up at the beginning of the
 section where the last one crashed. Each level has two
 sections, showing two types of terrain.
 In addition to gaining mileage, try to shoot down for
 points the weapons scattered throughout the course. You'll
 find six different types of weapons: rockets, ground artillery,
 flobbynoids, falling mines, comets, and flying saucers. The
 types of weapons you'll find and whether they're activated
 or not will differ, depending on the level at which you're
 playing. Just remember this: dodge their fire, don't run your
 chopper into them, and try to shoot them down for points.

 {DIAGRAM- Shows Mileage Gauge, Air Route, Chopper, Fuel Gauge,
 and Remaining Choppers}

 {DIAGRAM- Shows Rocket, Ground Artillery, Flobbynoid, Falling
 Mine, Comet, Flying Saucer, Fuel Tank, and Booty}

 FUEL TANKS
 The yellow bar at the bottom of the screen is your fuel gauge.
 Keep an eye on it because if your fuel runs out, your chopper
 is out of luck. You can partially replenish your supply by
 hitting a fuel tank with missile fire or a bomb. As the fuel
 depletes to a serious level, you'll hear a warning sound.
 This tells you to fly to a tank quickly and get more fuel.
 With each new chopper and with each new level, you'll get a
 supply of fuel.

 LEVEL 1-11: THE OBSTACLE COURSE
 Notice the blue band at the top of the screen. Each block
 in the band represents 1,000 miles of the obstacle course-
 or one game level. There are 11 levels in all; each level
 has two sections of terrain. Every time your chopper enters
 a new level, its corresponding block turns red.
 Survive one level (with at least one remaining chopper),
 and you'll hear a brief musical tune and see "mileage
 cleared." In a moment, you'll cruise into the next level
 and a different section of the obstacle course.
 Each level shows not only a different air route, but also
 displays different combinations of active and inactive
 weapons. Here's a rundown of what you'll encounter in
 each game level:
 Level 1: Rockets and ground artillery both active.
 Level 2: Rockets and ground artillery both active.
 Level 3: Rockets inactive, ground artillery active, flobbynoids
 appear as obstacles.
 Level 4: Rockets inactive, ground artillery active, flobbynoids
 appear as obstacles.
 Level 5: No rockets, ground artillery active, falling mines
 active.
 Level 6: Rockets inactive, ground artillery active.
 Level 7: Rockets inactive, ground artillery active, comets
 appear as obstacles.
 Level 8: Rockets inactive, ground artillery active, flying
 saucers appear as obstacles in first section and fire in the
 second section.
 Level 9: Rockets active, ground artillery active.
 Level 10: Rockets active, ground artillery active.
 Level 11: Here's where the booty lies. Rockets and ground
 artillery both active.

 THE BOOTY
 When you reach Level 11, the object is to pick up the booty
 by swooping down and landing on it. If you can accomplish this,
 there will be a slight pause in the action. After a brief
 musical tune, you'll go back to Level 1.

 END OF GAME
 The game ends when you run out of choppers.
 Press Button to Continue: When you see "Press button to
 continue," immediately press either or both bottom fire
 buttons (within five seconds). The game will restart at the
 same section of the level where the last chopper went down.
 Your score will be reset at "0."

 TWO-PLAYER GAMES
 The left player goes first; players alternate turns after
 each one loses a chopper. The left player's score is at
 the top left side of the screen. The right player's score
 is at the top right side of the screen.

 SCORING
 Hitting a rocket..................................50 points
 Hitting a fuel tank...............................50 points
 Hitting ground artillery.........................100 points
 for the first in each level; 200 points for the second in
 each level; 300 points for the third in each level; 100,
 200, 300, etc. for each additional hit.
 Hitting a flobbynoid.............................100 points
 Hitting a falling mine............................50 points
 Hitting a comet..................................100 points
 Hitting a flying saucer..........................100 points

 High score for all games played while the unit is ON
 appears at the top center of the screen. Once you turn the
 unit OFF/ON and begin again, the previous high score is set
 at zero.

 END

 Typed by Robert "Ferg" Ferguson (wombat2@ix.netcom.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
