
 VANGUARD

 BY ATARI, INC.

 Insert your 5200 game cartridge so the label faces you and reads
 right-side-up.  Be sure the cartridge is firmly seated in the center
 of the console, but do not force it.  Then press the POWER switch on.
 See your owner's manual for further details.

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
 -----------------

 1.  Fed up with Routine Space Flight?
 2.  Game Play
 3.  Using the 5200 Controllers
 4.  Scoring
 5.  Strategy

 VANGUARD WANTS YOU!

 1.  FED UP WITH ROUTINE SPACE FLIGHT?
 -------------------------------------

 Looking for new frontiers to conquer?  Then Vanguard is looking for
 YOU!  We seek courageous space pilots for exploration of Planet
 Aterria.  Come fly through the tunnels of Aterria in the Vanguard
 ship of tomorrow.  Be the first to enter the fabulous City oF Mystery
 and face the great Gond.

 High risk pay, five lives, bonuses!

 Don't wait!  Sign up for high adventure today!

 2.  GAME PLAY
 -------------

 So you enlisted for adventure, did you?  Well, you've come to the
 right place.  Your mission is to reach the City of Mystery at the
 end of the tunnel and destroy the great Gond with your four-
 directional laser guns.  Sound easy?  Wait and see.

 First you have to make it through the seven tunnel zones without
 getting smashed on the tunnel walls, crunched by enemy objects, or
 zapped by missiles.  The more enemy objects you destroy, the more
 points you earn, but the rougher it gets.  If you make it to the
 City of Mystery and destroy Gond, you earn bonus points.  Then you
 head into the next tunnel, which also leads to the City of Mystery
 and Gond.  Then what?  Well, to quote an old Aterrian saying, "Life
 is just one tunnel after another."

 Now before you climb into your spaceship and enter the first tunnel,
 take a look at the options.

 OPTIONS

 One or two players.  VANGUARD is set for a one-player game.  Press
 the # key on the 5200 keypad to select a two-player game.

 Single or Repeat Fire.  VANGUARD is set for Single Fire.  To select
 Repeat Fire, press the * key on your keypad.

 * Single Fire.  Press the red fire button (any red button) each time
 you want to fire.

 * Repeat Fire.  Hold in the red fire button and fire continuously.

 Tunnel.  In order of difficulty, the tunnels are NOVICE, FIRST,
 SECOND, and THIRD.  in the NOVICE tunnel the pace is slower, you
 never run out of fuel, your enemies don't shoot, and there are no
 barriers to trap you in the Stripe Zone.  VANGUARD is set for the
 FIRST tunnel.  Press the 7 key to change tunnels.

 Zone.  You can start the game in any zone except the City of Mystery.
 VANGUARD is set for the first (Mountain) zone.  Press the 9 key to
 change zones.

 When you have selected your options, press the START button and enter
 the tunnel.

 LIVES

 Your spaceship has five lives and earns a bonus life at 10,000 and
 50,000 points.  The number of lives remaining is shown at the top
 left of the screen, along with the scores and fuel guage (Figure 1).

 FUEL GUAGE

 Keep an eye on your fuel guage as you fly through the tunnels.  You
 use one notch each time you zap an enemy object.  It takes about 40
 seconds to empty the fuel tanks.  Don't run out of fuel or you'll
 crash.  You get a new supply of fuel with each new life.

 NOTE:  You never run out of fuel in the Novice Tunnel.

 TUNNEL MAP

 Use your tunnel map (Figure 1) to see where you are in the tunnel and
 where you're heading.  The blinking dot marks the location of your
 spacehip.

 LASER GUNS

 Now try out the laser guns mounted forward, aft, and on either side
 of your spaceship (Figure 2).  To fire the aft, starboard, or port
 guns, move your joystick in the direction you want to fire and press
 any one of the red fire buttons on your 5200 controller.  The forward
 gun fires automatically when you press the fire button.  IMPORTANT!
 Your spaceship moves faster when you are NOT firing.

 TUNNEL TOUR

 Ready for a short tour of the tunnel?  Then man your spaceship
 controls, keep your finger on the fire button, and take off!

 Mountain Zone (Figure 1).  This zone's no picnic!  First Mist copters
 try to impact on your spaceship, then Harley rockets fire missiles
 at you.  You can destroy Mists and Harleys with your lasers but you
 have to dodge missiles, except when your spaceship is operating on
 energy pod power.

 Energy Pods.  When you fly through a pod marked E, your spaceship
 becomes indestructible.  You can't fire lasers, but you can crash
 into enemy objects and score points fast.  Pod power lasts only as
 long as the Vanguard music plays.  When the music ends, a siren warns
 you to stop crashing and start firing.

 Rainbow Zone.  From the Mountain Zone you fly into a Rainbow Zone
 sparkling with crystals.  The scenery's fantastic, but you'll
 probably be too busy shooting Helm balloons to admire it.

 Styx Zone.  Styx and stones can break your bones, so steer a tight
 course through here.  It won't be easy with Harleys and Mists
 shooting missiles at you in the narrow passageways.

 Rainbow Zone 2.  Are you still with us?  Then down you go into
 another Rainbow Zone.  Watch it!  Ammo balloons are attacking in
 force.  Stay on top of them, and fire in all directions.  Whew!
 What next?

 Stripe Zone.  Better decide fast which route to follow in this zone.
 Garime monsters jump out and stomp on your spaceship on the upper
 route.  Barriers bar your way on the lower route.  You can pass
 barriers if you shoot them at the top or bottom; shooting them in the
 middle gets you nowhere.

 Both routes lead past enemy bosses and Floating Paynes.  Lasers
 destroy bases but not Paynes.  Sneak past Paynes while their arms
 are retracting.

 Take heart!  Energy pods grow along the lower route... If you can
 only reach them in time.

 NOTE: Barriers and Floating Paynes do not operate in the Novice
 Tunnel.

 Rainbow Zone 3.  Yes, another Rainbow Zone.  Finish off the Helm
 balloons, then head into the Bleak Zone.

 Bleak Zone.  Flying Kemlus snakes and spear-shaped Romeda ships call
 this zone home.  Touch a Kemlus and he'll carry you through the
 tunnel to the tune of 1090 bonus points.

 But beware!  you only get three rides.  After the third ride, you
 have to shoot to kill.

 HINT!  Kemlus snakes revive if you touch the debris.  So you can
 shoot a Kemlus and then ride it to score bonus points on top of
 points.  Just be careful not to touch the debris after the third
 ride.

 A rain of Romeda ships follows the Kemlus snakes.  Shoot all the
 Romedas you can, but be careful not to run into the debris; it's
 deadly.  Watch out for Romedas in even-numbered tunnels.  Some of
 them return your fire.

 CITY OF MYSTERY

 You can see that it isn't going to be easy to destroy Gond.  He's
 well protected by the two barriers moving in opposite directions in
 front of him (Figure 3).  Your lasers can hit him only when (and if)
 the barriers move in sync and leave an opening you can fire through.
 Keep on firing while you wait for a break.  Meanwhile, dodge missiles
 aimed at the spacehips's starboard (right) side and watch out for the
 lower barriers... they're creeping up on you.  Keep cool and don't
 panic.  The more time it takes to hit Gond, the more bonus points you
 earn.

 NOTE:  Gond doesn't fire at you in the Novice Tunnel.

 CONTINUE FEATURE

 When you lose your last life, you can continue your mission from
 wherever you are in the tunnel; you do not have to return to the
 beginning.  To continue through the tunnel, press the O key on your
 keypad or your red fire button when GAME OVER appears on your
 screen.  The lives counter will reset to 5 and the score counter to
 O.

 If you're holding in the fire button when you lose your last life,
 there will be no interruption in the game.  The lives and score
 counters will restart but GAME OVER will not appear.

 TWO-PILOT MISSIONS

 If there are two of you, the pilot using the left controller has the
 first command.  When he loses a life, the second pilot takes over.
 Pilots alternate turns until one pilot loses his last life.  The
 surviving pilot continues until he too loses his last life; then the
 game ends.  Use the left controller to start a new game or continue
 through the tunnel.

 3.  USING THE 5200 CONTROLLERS
 ------------------------------

 For solo missions, plug one 5200 controller into jack 1 at the front
 of the console unit.  For two-pilot missions, plug another controller
 into jack 2.

 CONTROL KEYS

 Press START to begin a game, PAUSE to freeze and unfreeze action, and
 RESET to bring up the options display.

 To interrupt a game and begin again, press PAUSE and then START.  To
 interrupt a game and change options, press PAUSE and then RESET.

 KEYPAD

 *  # selects ONE or TWO PLAYER option.
 *  * selects SINGLE or REPEAT FIRE option.
 *  7 selects TUNNEL option.
 *  9 selects ZONE option.
 *  O selects Continue feature.

 JOYSTICK

 Use the joystick on your controller to steer your spaceship and
 direct laser fire (see LASER GUNS, Section 2).  The joystick moves
 the spaceship left, right, up, and down on the television screen
 (Figure 4).  To move faster, push the joystick as far as it will go
 in the direction you want to travel.

 RED FIRE BUTTONS

 Press any of the red buttons to fire your laser guns.

 4.  SCORING
 -----------

                         ENEMY OBJECT
                         ------------

 Mist ship              70 points
 Harley rocket          50 points
 Helm balloon           80 points
 Ammo Balloon          100 points
 Base              100-400 points
 Garime Monsters   100-400 points
 Barrier               800 points
 Floating Payne    Can't be destroyed,
                        no points
 Kemlus snake      100-400 points
 Romeda ship           100 points

                         BONUSES
                         -------

 Bonus Lives                          At 10,000 and 50,000 points
 Riding a Kemlus (three times only)   1090 points each time
 Destroying Gond                      1000-8000 points

 NOTE: The longer you wait to destroy Gond, the more points you earn.

 5.  STRATEGY
 ------------

 FIRING SLOWS YOU DOWN

 Hold your fire whenever you eed a burst of speed to pass Paynes,
 dodge missiles, or dive for energy pods.

 MISTS AND HARLEYS

 Keep the spaceship moving up and down to avoid missiles, and fire
 vertically against the enemy's line of flight.

 RAINBOW ZONES

 Before entering a Rainbow zone, advance your spaceship to the middle
 of the screen.  This will prevent you from crashing into the tunnel
 walls as you enter.  To avoid getting zapped from above or below,
 fire your starboard and port guns alternately.

 STRIPE ZONE

 Go for the energy pod first; then crash into as many high-scoring
 targets as you can while pod power lasts.  When firing, fire on
 approach.  Don't fire at Paynes.  You can't destroy them, and firing
 slows them down.

 CITY OF MYSTERY

 To stay alive in the City of Mystery and earn lots of bonus points,
 you have to dodge missiles.  Wait for the first missile to appear,
 the quickly move to avoid it.  Keep changing your position while
 firin at Gond.  If you're lucky, you'll hit Gond before he hits you.

 END

 Typed by Keita Iida (keita@mindspring.com)
