
 WIZARD OF WOR

 BY CBS ELECTRONICS

 Welcome to the mystical kingdom of Wor!  You have been placed in
 command of an elite squadron of Worriors assigned to the task of
 outwitting the sinister Wizard of Wor! As you descend further and
 further into his diabolical dungeons, you will encounter deadly
 Worlings and maybe even the Wizard himself! Your only weapons are
 your trusty laser, your radar sanner and your agility and cunning.
 You will need them all as you attempt to beat the Wizard on his own
 turf and earn the title of Worlord Supreme! Prepare now, and let the
 battle begin!

 OBJECT OF THE GAME

 The object of WIZARD OF WOR is to accumulate points by destroying the
 Worlings you encounter as you pass through numerous dungeon mazes.
 Bonus points are allotted for successfully battling the Worluck and
 the Wizard himself. In the two-player version you can work with or
 compete against another Worrior commander.

 WORRIORS & LASER BLASTERS

 You begin each game with a squadron of three Worriors but can opt to
 start with five or seven by pressing the keypad square marked
 Worriors.  Only one worrior may enter and move about a dungeon at a
 time. Push up on the joystick and a Worrior will enter the dungeon
 from the vestibule below.

 Use the joystick to maneuver the Worrior through the dungeon maze. To
 fire the laser, press one of the two bottom trigger buttons on the
 sides of your
 controller. A laser will fire only in the direction that your Worrior
 is facing. You have an unlimited supply of ammunition. However, after
 a Worrior fires a shot, he cannot reshoot until that bullet makes
 contact with either a Worling of a wall.

 You will be awarded one extra Worrior should you be expert enough to
 reach the fourth dungeon, called the Arena. You will be awarded
 another one the first time you make it to the Pit. (Dungeon 13)

 DUNGEONS & WORLINGS

 Each dungeon is filled with different kinds of Worlings, those whose
 one purpose in this life is to destroy your Worrior. They will try to
 shoot him down or devour him. As each dungeon is cleared, a new, more
 complex dungeon takes its place, filled with faster, nastier and
 craftier Worlings. The species of Worlings are:

 BURWORS

 Six of these blue meanies appear at the beginning of each dungeon.

 GARWORS

 These yellow beasties are invisible, but will materialize for a few
 seconds from time to time.

 THORWORS

 These red devils are particularly nasty. They're not only invisible
 most of the time, but they're extra fast & tricky.

 WORLUK

 Starting iin the second dungeon, Worluk - The Wizard's winged beast
 - appears after the last Worling is shot.  Worluk will try to devour
 you before he escapes from the dungeon. Shooting Worluk doubles the
 point values for all Worlings shot in the next dungeon.

 THE WIZARD OF WOR

 After Worluk escapes or is shot, the Wizard himself may engage you in
 battle. This is a fight to the finish, with the Wizard teleporting
 from one position to another, hurling lightning bolts in your
 direction. Hitting the Wizard also doubles the point values for all
 Worlings shot in the next dungeon. If you're sharp enough to beat the
 Wizard, consider yourself a Dungeon Master!

 SPECIAL DUNGEONS

 The Arena - The fourth, most difficult of the basic dungeons with an
 open area in the midle of the maze.  Worlord Dungeons - Dungeon 8 and
 up are still more challenging mazes in which your Worrior, now called
 a Worlord, is more likely to encounter the angered Wizard.

 The Pit - The thirteenth dungeon, and the most awesome.  It is an
 entirely open field of battle with no place to hide. If you're able
 to clear this one without losing a Worrior, you earn the title of
 Worlord Supreme! Every sixth dungeon from this one on will take the
 form of the pit.

 SPECIAL FEATURES

 Radar Scanner - The Radar Scanner located below each dungeon depicts
 the location and movement of all beings in that dungeon except for
 your Worrior. This holds true for both visible and invisible
 Worlings, as well as Worluk and the Wizard. The Radar scanner is
 invaluable in keeping track of fast moving Worlings.

 Escape Doors - Escape doors are located on opposite sides of each
 dungeon. Simply stepping into one when an arrow appears in it will
 automatically beam your Worrior to the other side. The doors open and
 close at random intervals. Be careful, though. Worlings have a habit
 of using them too, especially when they're invisble.

 Worrior Countdown - Pick a safe moment and put your Worrior into play
 as soon as possible. Otherwise, after 10 seconds, as indicated by the
 Worrior Countdown, he'll be ejected into the dungeon which may leave
 him in a bad position.

 END OF GAME

 The game ends when your last Worrior succumbs to the
 supreme power of the Wizard's forces and is destroyed.

 TWO-PLAYER VERSION

 Two players may travel through each dungeon at the same time. Both
 controllers are used in this version. The right one controls the
 Yellow Worriors and the left on controls the Blue Worriors. Players
 may work together to destroy Worlings or they may fight against each
 other. Each Worrior destroyed by an opposing Worrior is worth 1,000
 points to the survivor.

 POINT VALUES

 BURWORS          100 points
 GARWORS          200 points
 THORWORS         500 points
 WORLUK           1000 points plus double score next dungeon
 WIZARD OF WOR    2500 points plus double score in next dungeon
 WORRIORS         1000 points (Two-player version)

 STRATEGY HINTS

 1- In the early dungeons, Worlings will remain slow for a longer
 period of time than in later dungeons. Therefore, it is to your
 advantage to get your Worrior into the dungeons as fast as possible
 and blast away Worling after Worling before they speed up.

 2- Learn to use your radar scanner and rely on it to locate invisible
 Worlings and track their movements.

 3- Don't shoot without having a plan to hit something.  Otherwise,
 you may not be able to shoot when you have to.

 END

 Typed by Todd DuBrey (kingart@cityusa.com)

 for Atari Gaming Headquarters
